
100 Years of Excellence 1921-202]

 

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

VISION

To generate knowledge for global competitive advantage and become
a leading world class research university.

MISSION

To play a leading role as a university of engineering and technology, in teaching,
innovation and commercialization that is internationally relevant and has a direct
bearing on national industrial, technological and socio-economic development.

01

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

CHANCELLOR'S MESSAGE

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore, enjoys a respectable position as a leading institution
amongst the reputed engineering universities of the world. Being a pioneering institution of engineering and
echnology in Pakistan, it cherishes a right tradition of imparting quality engineering and technical education |
othe best brains of the country.

Itis indeed a matter of great satisfaction for me to note that significant improvement has been achieved in
he sphere of engineering and technical education at the University in accordance with national and
nternational standards. With its emphasis on research and applied disciplines relevant to the need of time,
he University is certainly alive to the increasing demand of professional and progressive engineering for

 

national development.

Itis equally commendable that the University has created a modern infrastructure and has established its sub campuses at Kala Shah Kaku, Faisalabad,
Narowal and a constituent college at Gujranwala for furtherance of engineering studies in the country. This has certainly made it possible for students form
diverse areas in Punjab to update their knowledge in various technical disciplines, since modern technology has become essential for rapid pro

| am confident that efforts to excel in the field of higher education and the inculcation of technical expertise in the students of the University and its
campuses will continue in future with a greater zeal.

CHAUDHRY MUHAMMAD SARWAR
Governor Punjab
Chancellor University of Engineering & Technology, Lahore

 

100 Years of Exc


 

www.uet.edu.pk

 

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

VICE CHANCELLOR'S MESSAGE

lam pleased to state that UET as a premier institution established in 1921 has now become an icon of
quality in engineering education and itis a great honor for me to serve my Alma Mater. As you know that the
vision and mission are realigned recently to promote education, research and innovation, which are
mandatory for technological development in the country. This has been demonstrated by the alumni who
are serving in important national projects (i.e. engineering, design, IT, energy, architecture, planning, R&D
and infrastructure), organizations and multinational companies.

The new initiatives are taken for implementation of Outcome Based Education (OBE) to enhance student
learning outcomes in their degree programs with emphasis on research, knowledge, skills and values. This
will certainly help produce well-rounded graduates having advanced knowledge in their fields and
humanistic rectitude to be fit to serve for technological progress and to confront social challenges in society.

 

The faculty has set the quality benchmarks to achieve the milestones and key performance indicators (KPIs) for research, commercialization,
entrepreneurship and better learning outcomes in all programs. The administration is aware of the challenges and difficulties to overcome and to provide
best services to students and faculty, and bring harmonization in activities of all departments, centers and hostels. These efforts will lead to improvementin
quality of education, services as well as national and international ranking of the university. We are also strengthening our linkages with alumni, industry,
Government departments and international partners for academic cooperation.

| congratulate the students selected on merit for their choice to join UET and accept the challenge to work harder and smarter to excel in science,
technology, research and management programs as well as participate in sports, professional chapter competitions, and co-curricular activities.

| also take this opportunity to welcome the incoming students at all campuses of UET and hope that their stay at the university will be pleasant with good
learning experience.

PROF. DR. SYED MANSOOR SARWAR
Vice Chancellor
University of Engineering & Technology, Lahore

03

100 Years of Excellen


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

UNIVERSITY OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY LAHORE

Chancellor
CHAUDHARY MUHAMMAD SARWAR
Governor of Punjab

Pro Chancellor
RAJA YASIR HUMAYUN SARFRAZ
Minister for Education (Higher Education)

Vice Chancellor

PROF. DR. SYED MANSOOR SARWAR

Registrar

MUHAMMAD ASIF

Controller of Examinations
MUHAMMAD ZARGHAM NUSRAT

Treasurer

IMRAN BABER
04

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

DEANS OF FACULTIES

Faculty of Electrical Engineering

PROF. DR. MUHAMMAD KAMRAN

Faculty of Mechanical Engineering
PROF. DR. NADEEM AHMAD MUFTI

Faculty of Civil Engineering
PROF. DR. HABIB UR REHMAN

Faculty of Chemical, Metallurgical & Polymer Engineering

PROF. DR-ING. NAVEED RAMZAN

Faculty of Earth Sciences & Engineering

PROF. DR. MUHAMMAD ZUBAIR ABU BAKAR

Faculty of Architecture & Planning
PROF. DR. RIZWAN HAMEED

Faculty of Natural Sciences, Humanities & Islamic Studies

PROF. DR. MUHAMMAD SHAHID RAFIQUE

05

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

CHAIRPERSONS/ DIRECTORS OF TEACHING DEPARTMENTS/ INSTITUTES

Electrical Engineering
PROF. DR. MUHAMMAD TAHIR

Department of Geological Engineering
DR. MUHAMMAD FAROOQ AHMED

Computer Science
PROF. DR. MUHAMMAD SHOAIB

Petroleum and Gas Engineering
PROF. DR. MUHAMMAD KHURRAM ZAHOOR

Computer Engineering
PROF. DR. ALI HAMMAD AKBAR

Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
PROF. DR-ING FURQAN AHMED

Mechanical Engineering
PROF. DR. NASIR HAYAT

School of Architecture & Design
PROF. DR. RIZWAN HAMEED

Industrial & Manufacturing Engineering
PROF. DR. QAISER SALEEM

Architecture
PROF. DR. RIZWAN HAMEED

Mechatronics & Control Engineering
DR. ALI RAZA

Product & Industrial Design
PROF. DR. RIZWAN HAMEED

Civil Engineering
PROF. DR. KHALID FAROOQ

City & Regional Planning
06 PROF. DR. SHAKER MAHMOOD MAYO

Institute of Environmental Engineering & Research
PROF. DR. SAJJAD H. SHEIKH

Physics
PROF. DR. ANWAR LATIF

Architectural Engineering & Design
PROF. DR. SAJJAD MUBIN

Chemistry
PROF. DR. SYEDA RUBINA GILANI

Transportation Engineering & Management
PROF. DR. AMMAD HASSAN KHAN

Mathematics
PROF. DR. MUHAMMAD MUSHTAQ

Chemical Engineering
PROF. DR. SAIMA YASIN

Humanities & Social Sciences
DR. AMNA NIAZI

Polymer & Process Engineering
PROF. DR. ASIF ALI QAISER

Islamic Studies
DR. HAFIZ MUHAMMAD SHAHBAZ

Department of Mining Engineering
PROF. DR. ZULFIQAR ALI

Institute of Business and Management
DR. NASIR MALIK

Department of Textile Engineering
Dr. MUHAMMAD MOHSIN

100 Years of Excellence


 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

www.uet.edu.pk

HEADS OF NON-TEACHING DEPARTMENTS

Director Research, Innovation and Commercialization
DR. MUHAMMAD AZEEM RAZA

Director Students Affairs
PROF. DR. ASIF ALI QAISER

Director Studies
PROF. DR. AMMAD HASSAN KHAN

Director International Students Office
DR. AMNA NIAZI

Senior Warden
PROF. DR. MUHAMMAD MUSHTAQ

Director Students Financial Aid & Career Services
PROF. DR. MUHAMMAD USMAN GHANI KHAN

Convener Admission Committee / In-charge Students Section
DR. ASIM LOAN

Director, Al-Khawarizmi Institute of Computer Sciences
PROF. DR. WAQAR MAHMOOD

Focal Person Higher Education Commission
DR. MUHAMMAD AZEEM RAZA

Director Planning and Development
DR. QASIM MANZOOR

Chairman Health Committee
PROF. DR. KHALID MAHMOOD UL HASSAN

Project Director Lahore Campus
ENGR. ASAD MASOOD

100 Years of Excellenc

Chairman Transport Committee
PROF. DR. ZIA-UR-REHMAN

Project Director University City Campus
ENGR. AWAIS MALIK

Chairman Library Committee
PROF. DR. ASADULLAH QAZI

Project Director Faisalabad Campus
ENGR. AWAIS MALIK

Chairman Proctorial Board
PROF. DR. MUHAMMAD SHOAIB

Resident Officer
MUHAMMAD ASIF

Chairman Sports Committee
PROF. DR. SHAKER MAHMOOD MAYO

Resident Auditor
DR. ZUBAIR FAROOQ

Director Repair and Maintenance Centre
PROF. DR. WAQAR MAHMOOD

Public Relations Officer
Ms. SHAHIDA NAZEER

Director Automotive Engineering Centre
PROF. DR. ASAD NAEEM SHAH

Director Quality Enhancement Cell

PROF. DR. AMER AZIZ 07


www.uet.edu.pk

Vision and Mission 1
Chancellor's Message 2
Vice Chancellor's Message 3
Officers of The University 4
Deans of Faculties 5
Chairpersons / Directors Of Teaching Departments /
Institutes 6
Heads of Non-teaching Departments 7
Academic Calendar (2020-2021) 9
The University 10
Degree Programs Offered at UET 11
Affiliated Institutions & Programs Offered 12
UG Admission Process Schedule 13
Admission Procedure 14
Determination of Merit 19
Application Categories and Symbols 21
Application filling and Submission 25
Procedure for the selected candidates 27
FACULTIES & DEPARTMENTS 30
Department of Electrical Engineering 34
Department of Computer Science 37
Department of Computer Engineering M4
Department of Mechanical Engineering 46
Department of Industrial & Manufacturing Engineering
50

Department of Mechatronics & Control Engineering 53
Department of Architectural Engineering & Design 58

Department of Civil Engineering 63
Department of Transportation Engineering &

Management 67
institute of Environmental Engineering & Research 70
Department of Chemical Engineering 15

Department of Polymer & Process Engineering 78
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering82
Department of Mining Engineering 87

 

 

 

CONTENTS

 

 

 

Department of Geological Engineering 91
Department of Petroleum & Gas Engineering 94
Department of Architecture 100
Department of City & Regional Planning 103
Department of Product & Industrial Design 107
Department of Chemistry 112
Department of Mathematics 116
Department of Physics 120
Department of Humanities, Management & Social
Sciences 123
Department of Islamic Studies 124
Institute of Business and Management 125
FAISALABAD CAMPUS 127
Common Facilities at the Campus 129
Department of Electrical, Electronics & Communication
Engineering 129
Department of Mechatronics and Control Engineering
130
Department of Chemical and Polymer Engineering 131
Department of Textile Engineering and Technology 131
Department of Humanities, Basic Sciences and Islamic
Studies 134
KSK CAMPUS 136
Department of Electrical, Electronics &
Telecommunication Engineering 138
Department of Bio-Medical Engineering 139
Department of Mechanical, Mechatronics &
Manufacturing Engineering 141
Department of Chemical, Polymer & Composite
Material Engineering 143
Department of Basic Sciences and Humanities 144
Department of Computer Sciences 146
RACHNA CAMPUS 149
Department of Electrical Engineering 151

, Years of

Department of Mechanical Engineering

Studies

NAROWAL CAMPUS
Department of Electrical Engineering

Department of Mechanical Engineering
Department of Civil Engineering

Department of Bio-Medical Engineering
Department of Basic Sciences & Humanities

Rules & Regulations

important Information

Underaduate Semester Regulations
Examination Regulations

Migration Regulations

Code of Ethics

Code of Honour

 

Authorities to check indiscipline

Penalties for Acts of Indiscipline

General Discipline Rules Relating to Students
UG Fee Regulations

Financial Assistance and Scholarship Policy
Fee Structure

UG Fee Schedule fro session 2021
Minimum Merit summary 2020

Seat Allocation Chart

Important Contact Information
Acknowledgments

Forms

Disclaimer

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

152

Department of Industrial & Manufacturing Engineering

152

Department of Computer Science and Engineering 153
Department of Natural Sciences, Humanities & Islamic

153

155
157

Department of Computer Science and Engineering 158

159
159
160
161

162
164
165
72
176
ED
178
719
80
81
82
84
85
86
87
88
96
97
198
220

 

 


 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021
Gained a recognition as enginnering univeristy in 1961 but started as mughlpura technical college in 1921.


ACADEMIC

Fall Seme

CALENDAR (2021-2022)

ster (For Sessions 2018 to 2020)

 

Semester Starts

Monday, 13" September 2021

 

Semester Ends (after 15weeks)

Friday, 24" December 2021

 

Examination period

Monday, 27" December 2021 to Friday, 7" January 2022

 

Semester Break

Monday, 10" January 2022 to Friday, 14” January 2022

 

Deadline for Submission of Results

Friday, 14" January 2022

 

Spring Semester (For Sessions 2018 to 2020)

 

Semester Starts

Monday, 17" January 2022

 

Semester Ends (after 15 weeks)

Friday, 29" April 2022

 

Examination period

Monday, 9” May 2022 to Friday, 20" May 2022

 

Deadline for Submission of Results

Friday, 27" May 2022

 

Summer Semester (Optional) (For Session 2018 to 2020)

 

Semester Starts

Monday, 27" June 2022

 

Semester Ends (after 8 weeks of study)

Friday, 19” August 2022

 

Examination Period

Monday, 22” August 2022 to Friday, 26" August 2022

 

Deadline for Submission of Results

Friday, 2" September 2022

 

Fall Semester (For Session 2021)

 

Semester Starts

Monday, 8" November 2021

 

Semester Ends (after 15 weeks)

Friday, 18" February 2022

 

Examination period

Monday, 21% February 2022 to Friday, 4" March 2022

 

Semester Break

Monday, 7* March 2022 to Friday, 11" March 2022

 

Deadline for Submission of Results

Friday, 11° March 2022

 

Sprin

g Semester (For Session 2021)

 

Semester Starts

Monday, 14" March 2022

 

Semester Ends (after 15 weeks)

Friday, 24" June 2022

 

Examination period

Monday, 27" June 2022 to Friday, 8" July 2022

 

Deadline for Submission of Results

Friday, 15” July 2022

 

Guided Summer

Semester (Optional) (For Session 2021)

 

Semester Starts

Monday, 18" July 2022

 

Semester Ends (after 4 weeks of study)

Friday, 12" August 2022

 

Examination period

Monday, 15" August 2022 to Friday, 19" August 2022

 

 

Deadline for Submission of Results

 

Friday, 26" August 2022

 

 

www.uet.edu.pk

09

100 Years of Excellence


   

www.uet.edu.pk

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

THE UNIVERSITY

Though this institution received its charter as a University in the year
1961, it has a much longer history as a distinguished seat of learning in
engineering sciences. It started in 1921 as the Mughalpura Technical
College, deriving its name from the famous suburb of the old city of
Lahore, richly dotted with architectural heritage of the great Mughals
including the magnificent Shalimar Gardens. Its more familiar name of the
pre-University era, the Maclagan Engineering College, was given to it in
1923 when Sir Edwards Maclagan, the then Governor of the Punjab, laid
the foundation stone of the building, now called the Main Block, which still
retains its majesty in spite of the wear and tear of almost a century. At that
stage, the institution offered courses of study in two disciplines, namely
Electrical and Mechanical Engineering. The year 1932 is a major
milestone in the evolution of this institution when it was affiliated with the
University of the Punjab for award of a Bachelor's Degree in Engineering.
At the dawn of Independence, i.e., in 1947, it had well-established B.Sc.
Degree courses in civil, electrical and mechanical engineering, and the
quality of its scholastic standards won ita place of prestige throughout the
British India.

In 1954 it started a Bachelor's Degree course in Mining Engineering, the
first-ever of its kind in the country. But its massive expansion and
development commenced in 1961 on its transformation into a University.
It set for itself a variety of goals, but the first priority was to start teaching of
those disciplines, which were crucial for national development but were
not catered for by any institution in the country. Accordingly, in the sixties,
Bachelor's degree courses were started in Chemical Engineering,
Petroleum & Gas Engineering, Metallurgical Engineering, Architecture,
and City & Regional Planning.

Later, the University concentrated its energies and resources on
developing its postgraduate programs. By 1970s it had established over a
score of Masters Degree Courses in diverse specializations of
engineering, architecture, planning and allied disciplines. Ph.D. Degree
Program was also instituted in a number of disciplines. The process of
consolidating and strengthening continued to be a major concern of the
University, with phenomenal increase in enrollment in seventies.
Consequently, the University College of Engineering was established in
1975 at Sahiwal. For three years it functioned at Sahiwal and was shifted
to its present campus at Taxila in 1978. Subsequently, this college was
upgraded to a university and it is currently functioning as University of
Engineering and Technology, Taxila.

Establishing traditions of research in the engineering and allied
disciplines has been a major goal of the University. With this end in view,
the University established a Directorate of Research, Extension and
Advisory Services, which strives for the promotion and organization of
research activities.

In the recent past, there has been a substantial rise in students’
enrollment and the figure has now gone up to over 13,380. Currently,
2,928 students are pursuing postgraduate studies. The number of female
students enrolling for different disciplines is ever on the increase and is
3,339 at present. The number of foreign students coming from countries,
like Iran, Jordan, Kuwait, Kenya, Nepal, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Bangladesh
and Sri Lanka is over 473 which gives the University Campus a
cosmopolitan character.

The university has 789 teachers of which 362 are Ph.D. degree holders,
101 are pursuing Ph.D. abroad.

The teaching departments of the University are grouped into the following
seven faculties:
- Faculty of Electrical Engineering

Faculty of Mechanical Engineering

Faculty of Civil Engineering

Faculty of Architecture & Planning

Faculty of Chemical, Metallurgical and Polymer Engineering

Faculty of Natural Sciences, Humanities and Islamic Studies

Faculty of Earth Sciences and Engineering

The university set up a campus at Faisalabad in 2006 and also
established a campus at Kala Shah Kaku in 2007, which is known as
University's City Campus. Rachna College of Engineering & Technology,
Gujranwala is a constituent college and follows the same academic
curriculum and policies as the ones followed at the main campus in
Lahore. In 2012, the university established a new campus in Narowal with
an aim to produce quality technical manpower for the District of Narowal
and its surroundings. In addition to managing its own campus, the
University controls the academic programs and examinations of
numerous institutions, which are affiliated with it for award of degrees.

100 Years of Exc


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

DEGREE PROGRAMS OFFERED AT UET

1. Degree Programs at Main Campus 2. Degree Programs at New Campus Kala Shah Kaku

ili.

Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree is offered in the following
disciplines:

a) Architectural Engineering

I)

) Automotive Engineering
c) Chemical Engineering
d) Civil Engineering
e) City and Regional Planning
f) | Computer Engineering
g) Computer Science
h) Electrical Engineering
i) Environmental Engineering
j) Geological Engineering
k) Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering
|) Mechanical Engineering
m) Mechatronics and Control Engineering
n) Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
0) Mining Engineering
p) Petroleum and Gas Engineering
q) Polymer Engineering
r) Transportation Engineering

Bachelor's Degree is offered in the following disciplines:
a) Architecture

b) Business Administration

c) Business Information Technology

d) Product and Industrial Design

Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Degree is offered in the following
disciplines:

a) Chemistry

b) Mathematics

c) Physics

(KSK)

Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree is offered in the following
disciplines:

a) Biomedical Engineering

b) Computer Science

c) Chemical Engineering

d) Electrical Engineering

e) Environmental Science

f) | Mechanical Engineering

g) Software Engineering

Degree Programs at Faisalabad Campus

Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree is offered in the following
disciplines:

a) Chemical Engineering

b) Electrical Engineering

c) Environmental Science

d) Mechatronics & Control Engineering

e) Textile Engineering

Degree Programs at Rachna College of Engineering &
Technology Gujranwala

Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree is offered in the following
disciplines:

 

a)
b)
¢)
q)

Electrical Engineering

Mechanical Engineering

Industrial & Manufacturing Engineering
Computer Science
#narowal campus courses:

5. Degree Programs at Narowal Campus
Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree is offered in the following
disciplines:

Biomedical Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Science

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

AFFILIATED INSTITUTIONS AND PROGRAMS OFFERED

1. NFC Institute of Engineering and Fertilizer Research,
Faisalabad
a) Bachelor of Business Administration
b) B.Sc. Civil Engineering
c) B.Sc. (Hons) Computer Science
d) B.Sc. Chemical Engineering
e) B.Sc. Electrical Engineering
f) B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering
g) B.Sc. Civil Engineering Technology
h) B.Sc. Electrical Engineering Technology
i) B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering Technology
j) M.Sc. Chemical Engineering

2. Government College of Technology, Lahore
a) B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering Technology

3. Government College of Technology, Faisalabad
a) B.Sc. Electrical Engineering Technology

4. Sharif College of Engineering & Technology, Lahore
a) B.Sc. Chemical Engineering
b) B.Sc. (Hons) Computer Science
c) B.Sc. Electrical Engineering

5. Dr. A. Q. Khan Institute of Technology, Mianwali
a) B.Sc. Civil Engineering Technology
b) B.Sc. Electrical Engineering Technology
c) B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering Technology

12

 

6.

10.

Quaid-e-Azam College of Engineering and Technology,
Sahiwal

a) B.Sc. Civil Engineering

B.Sc. Electrical Engineering

B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering

B.Sc. Civil Engineering Technology

B.Sc. Electrical Engineering Technology

f) B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering Technology

2,235

Swedish College of Engineering & Technology, Rahim
Yar Khan

a) B.Sc. Civil Engineering

b) B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering

Sir Syed College of Computer Science, Lahore
a) B.Sc.(Hons) Computer Science

Government Swedish Pakistani College of
Technology, Gujrat
a) B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering Technology

Grafton College, Islamabad
a) B.Sc. (Hons) Computer Science
b) B.Sc. Electrical Engineering

11. Islam College of Engineering and Management
Sciences, Sialkot

a) B.Sc. Civil Engineering

b) B.Sc. Electrical Engineering

c) B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION PROCESS SCHEDULE 2021

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Event Date Day

Availability of Undergraduate Prospectus 20-09-2021 Monday
On-line Filling and Submission of Admission Forms Starts 20-09-2021 | Monday
Last date of On-Line Submission of Admission Forms 11-10-2021 Monday
Hafiz-e-Quran Test Reporting Time 9:30 am | 13-10-2021 | Wednesday
Sports Test Reporting Time 9:30 am | 14-10-2021 | Thursday
Announcement of 1" Merit List (Evening) 15-10-2021 Friday
Last Date of Depositing Dues and Documents for 1° Merit List 21-10-2021 | Thursday
Announcement of 2” Merit List (Evening) 22-10-2021 Friday
Last Date of Depositing Dues and Documents for 2” Merit List 27-10-2021 | Wednesday
Announcement of 3° Merit List (Evening) 28-10-2021 | Thursday
Last Date of Depositing Dues and Documents for 3° Merit List 01-11-2021 Monday
Announcement of 4” Merit List (Evening) 02-11-2021 | Tuesday
Last Date of Depositing Dues and Documents for 4” Merit List 04-11-2021 | Thursday
Hostel Allotment Starts 05-11-2021 Friday
“Request to Shift to Lower Merit Preference” Option Opens (9:00 am) | 05-11-2021 Friday
“Request to Shift to Lower Merit Preference” Option Closes (Noon) 06-11-2021 | Saturday
Announcement of Merit List of Preference Change Applicants (9:00 pm)} 07-11-2021 Sunday
Regular Classes Commence 08-11-2021 | Monday
Allocation of Registration Numbers in Respective Departments 08-11-2021 Monday

 

 

 

 

 

 

13

100 Years of Excellenc


Es Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

ADMISSION PROCEDURE
4. GENERALINSTRUCTIONS

a) Members of the University staff will be available for personal consultation during admission period.

b) Try to submit the application as early as possible. Do not wait for the last date.

c) Assoonas the process of selection is complete, the merit list shall be notified showing the percentage aggregate marks of the applicants
admitted in different disciplines against different categories.

2. REQUIRED SUBJECT COMBINATIONS AND EQUIVALENCE
2.1 Candidates having either one of the following subject combinations in their intermediate or equivalent are eligible to apply for admission in
programs listed alongside each combination:

 

 

Subject Combinations Programs for which Eligible
in Intermediate/ equivalent qualification
Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry All programs offered at UET.

 

Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Software Engineering, Architecture, City and
Mathematics, Physics, Computer Science | Regional Planning, Product and Industrial Design, Mathematics, Physics, BBA, BBIT.

 

 

 

Mathematics, Physics, Statistics Architecture, City and Regional Planning, Product and Industrial
Design, Mathematics, Physics, BBA, BBIT.

Biology, Physics, Chemistry Biomedical Engineering, Chemistry, Physics, Environmental Science,
BBA, BBIT

Intermediate or equivalent subject BBA, BBIT

 

 

 

combinations other than the above
The University recognizes the following examinations as equivalent to the Intermediate in subject combinations listed above:
Intermediate Examination of the Board of Intermediate & Secondary Education, Azad Kashmir.

Intermediate Examination of the Agha Khan University Examination Board.

Intermediate Examination of a Higher Education Commission (HEC) recognized/ approved institution.

Equivalent examinations of non-Pakistani Boards.

 

2.2. Equivalence Certificates for Examinations Conducted by Non-Pakistani Boards
The determination of equivalence and issuance of equivalent marks certificate up to HSSC level for certificates other than those issued by
Pakistan's Boards is the jurisdiction of the Inter Board Committee of Chairmen (IBCC) as per decision of the Supreme Court of Pakistan. Such
applicants are required to attach an equivalence certificate showing marks with the application for admission issued by the IBCC. The following
are the addresses of the IBCC offices:
e |BCCatFBISE Building, H-8/4, Islamabad
e |BCC Regional Office at BISE Building, 86 Mozang Road, Lahore

3. ELIGIBILITY FORADMISSION
3.1 General Eligibility Requirements
An applicant for admission to any of the bachelor's degree course offered by the University must fulfill the following requirements:
e Heshould have earned at least 60% marks in Intermediate/ DAE or equivalent foreign qualification examination excluding sports and
Hafiz-e-Quran marks.
e Heshould have appeared in the Entry Test arranged by this University for that academic session in which he seeks admission. His
subject combination in the Entry Test must be same as his intermediate (or equivalent) subject combination because he will be

100 Years of Exc

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

considered for admission in the prescribed disciplines relevant to his subject combination only. This restriction does not apply to DAE
qualified candidates.

e@ Incase the candidate seeks admission based on B.Sc. Engineering Technology or equivalent degree, he should have obtained (or
expect to obtain) atleast 60% marks, in case of annual system, or a CGPA of 2.5 out of 4.0, in case of semester system.

e Heshould have earned (or expect to earn) at least 50% overall adjusted aggregate marks calculated according to the formula given in
Merit Calculation section.

e Heshould be a bonafide resident of the area from where he seeks admission

e Heshould meet standards of physique and eyesight laid down in the medical certificate.

3.2 Other Eligibility Requirements

e An applicant for admission to any of the B.Sc. Engineering Degree Courses, B.Sc. City & Regional Planning, B.Sc. Computer
Science, Bachelor's Degrees in Architecture and Product & Industrial Design, B.S. in Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics must have
passed the Intermediate (Pre-Engineering) examination with Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics from a Board of Intermediate and
Secondary Education of Pakistan or an equivalent examination recognized by the University.

e — Intermediate or an equivalent examination with Physics, Mathematics and Computer Science shall be acceptable only for Computer
Science, Computer Engineering, Software Engineering, City & Regional Planning, Architecture, Product & Industrial Design,
Mathematics, Physics, BBAand BBIT.

e@ Intermediate or an equivalent examination with Physics, Mathematics and Statistics shall be acceptable only for admission in City &
Regional Planning, Architecture, Product & Industrial Design, Mathematics, Physics, BBAand BBIT.

e — Intermediate (Pre-Medical) or an equivalent examination with Physics, Biology and Chemistry shall be acceptable only for admission
in Biomedical Engineering, Chemistry, Physics, Environmental Science, BBAand BBIT programs.

e Candidate with B.Sc. Engineering Technology or equivalent degrees should have his degree relevant to the branch of engineering, as
prescribed by the university, in which he seeks admission.

e Candidate with DAE qualification should have their diploma relevant to the branch of engineering in which he seeks admission as
explained later in this prospectus.

e Candidates with Intermediate or equivalent qualification in subject combinations/ qualification other than those listed above are only
eligible to apply in BBAand BBIT programs.

3.3 Seats for Diploma Holders
e For admission against seats reserved for the holders of Diploma of Associate Engineer, the candidate should have passed diploma
examination of a Board of Technical Education in the relevant technology.
e Applicants seeking admission against seats reserved for the holders of Diploma of Associate Engineer shall not be eligible unless their
diplomas are in the relevant technology as specified against each degree course given below (the following list may be amended from time
to time depending on notifications of Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC)):

3.4 Seats for Diploma Holders
For admission against seats reserved for the holders of Diploma of Associate Engineer, the candidate should have passed diploma examination
of a Board of Technical Education in the relevant technology as specified against each degree course given below (the following list may be
amended from time to time depending on notifications of Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC)):

100 Years of Excellence


16

www.uet.edu.pk

B.Sc. Electrical Engineering

LL Se

e2ao

SaSereses>

3

Diploma in Electrical Technology iv.
Diploma in Telecommunication Technology

Diploma in Electronics Technology

Diploma in Avionics Technology

Diploma in Instrumentation Technology

Diploma in Information Technology

Diploma in Precision Mechanical & Instrument Technology
Diploma in Radar Technology

Diploma in Automation Technology

Diploma in Radio Technology

Diploma in Instrumentation & Process Control Technology

Diploma in Mechatronics

Diploma in Computer/ Computer Information Technology Vv.

B.Sc. Computer Engineering

Sze 5>e2205n

ZS

Diploma in Computer Information Technology
Diploma in Computer Technology

Diploma in Telecommunication Technology
Diploma in Electrical Technology

Diploma in Electronics Technology

Diploma in Software Technology

Diploma in Radar Technology

Diploma in Automation Technology

Diploma in Radio Technology

Diploma in Instrumentation Technology
Diploma in Instrumentation & Process Control Technology vi.

B.Sc. Computer Science

a)

BAS

B33 SBS Sze rea29

OS;

Diploma in Computer Information Technology
Diploma in Computer Technology
Diploma in Information Technology
Diploma in Software Technology
Diploma in Electrical Technology
Diploma in Mechanical Technology
Diploma in Civil Technology
Diploma in Electronics Technology
Diploma in Biomedical Technology
Diploma in Automation Technology
Diploma in Radio Technology
Diploma in Radar Technology

Diploma in Instruments Technology vii.

Diploma in Instrumentation & Process Control Technology
Diploma in Telecommunication Technology

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

B.Sc. Biomedical Engineering

Diploma in Biomedical Technology

Diploma in Electrical Technology

Diploma in Electronics Technology

Diploma in Instrumentation Technology

Diploma in Radar Technology

Diploma in Automation Technology

Diploma in Radio Technology

Diploma in Instrumentation & Process Control Technology
Diploma in Healthcare Technology

Diploma in Mechatronics

B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering

b

d
f)
g

i)

a
¢
e
h
kK

)

Diploma in Mechanical Technology

Diploma in Precision Mechanical &lnstruments Technology
Diploma in Auto & Diesel Technology

Diploma in Bio-Medical Technology

Diploma in Dies & Mould Technology

Diploma in Automation Technology

Diploma in Refrigeration & Air Conditioning Technology
Diplmain Aerospace Technology
Diploma in Mechatronics Technology

Diploma in Mechanical Technology with any specialization
Diploma in Vacuum Technology

B.Sc. Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering

a)
b

se sesos

J
k)
!)

Diploma in Mechanical Technology

Diploma in Cast Metal & Foundry Technology

Diploma in Mechanical (Production) Technology

Diploma in Auto & Diesel Technology.

Diploma in Automation Technology

Diploma in Mechanical (Construction Machinery) Technology
Diploma in Chemical Technology

Diploma in Dies and Mold Technology

Diploma in Glass, Ceramics and Pottery Development
Technology
Diploma in Vacuum Technology

Diploma in Mechatronics Technology

Diploma in Mechanical Technology with any specialization

 

 

B.Sc. Mechatronics and Control Engineering

a)
b)

100 Years of Exc

Diploma in Instruments Technology
Diploma in Electrical Technology

ZITa4

 


 

viii.

xi.

xii.

100 Years of Excellence

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Diploma in Electronics Technology

Diploma in Mechanical Technology

Diploma in Radar Technology

Diploma in Automation Technology

Diploma in Radio Technology

Diploma in Instrumentation & Process Control Technology
Diploma in Mechatronics Technology

Diploma in Mechanical Technology with any specialization

So zeseso

B.Sc. Textile Engineering

a) Diplomain Textile Technology

b) Diplomain Spinning Technology

c) Diplomain Textile Weaving Technology

d) _Diplomain Textile Dying and Printing Technology
e) Diplomain Garments Technology

f)  Diplomain Dress Designing & Making/ Fashion Design
g) Diplomain Automation Technology

h)  Diplomain Printing and Graphics Arts

i)  Diplomain Chemical Technology

j) Diploma in Leather Technology

B.Sc. Civil Engineering

a) Diplomain Civil Technology

b) DiplomainLand & Mine Surveying Technology

c) DiplomainArchitecture Technology

d) Diplomain Environmental Technology

e) Diplomain Civil Technology with any Specialization

B.Sc. Architectural Engineering

a) Diplomain Civil Technology

b) DiplomainArchitecture Technology
c) Diplomain Construction Technology

B.Sc. Transportation Engineering
a) _Diplomain Civil Technology

B.Sc. Chemical Engineering

a) Diplomain Chemical Technology

b) Diplomain Chemical Processing Technology

c) Diploma in Chemical Technology (specialization in Sugar
Technology)

d) Diplomain Petro Chemical Technology

e) Diplomain Petroleum Technology

www.uet.edu.pk

Diploma in Leather Technology

Diploma in Footwear Technology

Diplomain Glass, Ceramics and Pottery Development
i)  Diplomain Chemical Technology with any specialization

ses

xiii. B.Sc. Metallurgical and Materials Engineering

Diploma in Metallurgy & Welding Technology

Diploma in Foundry and Pattern Making Technology
Diploma in Mechanical Technology

Diploma in Cast Metal & Foundry Technology

Diploma in Mechanical Technology with any specialization
Diploma in Glass, Ceramics and Pottery Development

wp SesocD

xiv. B.Sc. Polymer and Process Engineering

Diploma in Chemical Technology

Diploma in Chemical Processing Technology

Diploma in Chemical Technology with any specialization
Diploma in Petro Chemical Technology

Diploma in Petroleum Technology

c2

CALS

i

xv. B.Sc. Petroleum & Gas Engineering
a) Diplomain Petroleum Technology
b) Diplomain Chemical Technology
c) Diplomain Petrochemical Technology

xvi.

B.Sc. Mining Engineering
a) DiplomainLand and Mine Surveying Technology
b) Diplomain Mining Technology

xvii. B. Architecture
a) DiplomainArchitecture
b) Diplomain Civil Technology
c) Diplomain Land and Mine Surveying Technology

xviii. B. Product and Industrial Design
All Technologies are eligible to apply

xix. B.S. Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics
All Technologies are eligible to apply


www.uet.edu.pk

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

3.4 Seats for B.Sc. Engineering Technology or Equivalent Degree Holders
Applicants seeking admission against seats reserved for the holders of B.Sc. Engineering Technology or equivalent degrees shall be eligible if
their degrees are in the relevant technology as specified against each degree course given below. Relevancy of the technology with changed
nomenclature will be acceptable subject to the approval of the concerned Dean:

Electrical Engineering

Electrical Technology, Electrical Engineering Technology, Electronics Technology

Biomedical Engineering

Biomedical Technology, Biomedical Engineering Technology

Civil Engineering

Civil Technology, Civil Engineering Technology

Textile Engineering

Textile Technology, Textile Engineering Technology

Mechanical Engineering

Mechanical Technology, Mechanical Engineering Technology, Industrial Technology, Industrial Engineering Technology, Mechatronics
Technology, Mechatronics Engineering Technology

Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering

Mechanical Technology, Mechanical Engineering Technology, Industrial Technology, Industrial Engineering Technology, Mechatronics
Technology, Mechatronics Engineering Technology

Chemical Engineering

Chemical Technology, Chemical Engineering Technology, Polymer Technology, Polymer Engineering Technology, Material Technology,
Material Engineering Technology

4. AGELIMITAND GENDER
There is no age restriction for seeking admission to any bachelor's degree course at the University. Male, female and transgender persons are
eligible to apply for all seats.

 

100 Years of Exc

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

DETERMINATION OF MERIT

1. EXAMINATIONS CONSIDERED FOR MERIT PURPOSE
For admission to bachelor's degree courses, except BBA and BBIT programs, and determination of merit the following examinations are considered:
a) Intermediate examination or equivalent with the following combinations: Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry; or Mathematics, Physics, Computer
Science; or Mathematics, Physics, Statistics; or Physics, Chemistry, Biology
b) Diploma of Associate Engineer or B.Sc. Engineering Technology or equivalent for reserved seats only:
c) Entry Test2021.

1.1 Foradmission to BBAand BBIT programs, and determination of merit the following examinations are considered:
i. Intermediate examination or equivalent of all combinations.
ii. Diploma ofAssociate Engineer or B.Sc. Engineering Technology or equivalent.

2.0 MERIT DETERMINATION
The comparative merit of applicants will be determined on the basis of overall adjusted admission marks obtained by them in the examinations stated
above:
i. Forapplicantwith Intermediate or equivalent qualification:
a) 70% weight to Percentage marks obtained including Sports and Hafiz-e-Quran marks.
b) 30% weightto Entry test marks.
ii. Forapplicants having Diploma of Associate Engineer qualification (for reserved seats only):
a) 70% weightto Percentage of marks obtained in Diploma of Associate Engineer including Sports and Hafiz-e-Quran marks.
b) 30% weightto Entry test marks.
iii. Forapplicants having B.Sc. Engineering Technology or equivalent qualification (for reserved seats only):

a) 70% weight to Percentage of marks obtained in B.Sc. Engineering Technology degree in case of annual system. In case of the degree
being awarded under semester system, a CGPA of 2.5 out of 4.0 will be equated to 60% marks and a CGPA of 4.0 out of 4.0 would be
equated to 90% marks. Other values of CGPA out of 4.0 will be interpolated accordingly.

b) 30% weightto Entry test marks.

3.0 MERIT OF INTERMEDIATE (PRE-MEDICAL) WITH MATHEMATICS
In determining the merit of an applicant having Intermediate (Pre-Medical) with Mathematics as an additional subject, the marks obtained in the
subject of Biology are replaced by those obtained in Mathematics.

4.0 CREDIT FOR HAFIZ-E-QURAN
i. AHafiz-e-Quran is given additional marks in determination of merit. He will get the benefit only ifhe has:
a) _ Filledin the necessary check box provided in the online application form and
b) Appeared before the “verification committee” appointed by the Vice Chancellor for oral test, carrying zero to twenty marks, which has
awarded marks according to the degree of his proficiency.
ii. Intermediate/ DAE/ B.Sc. Engineering Technology or equivalent marks are adjusted according to the following formula: Percentage Marks
obtained in Intermediate/ DAE/ B.Sc. Engineering Technology or equivalent + (Marks awarded by the Verification Committee/11)

The "Verification Committee" will hold oral test at 09:30 am in UET Lahore on Wednesday, 13" October 2021. It may be noted that no separate call letters
will be issued to the concerned applicants in this connection.

100 Years of Excellence


Es Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

5.0 CREDIT FOR SPORTS
i. | Amaximum often marks will be added to the academic marks in Intermediate or equivalent examination of an applicant who is a sportsman. He
will get the benefit only ifhe has:
a) _ Filledin the necessary check box provided in the on line application form; and
b) Appeared before the “verification committee” appointed by the Vice-Chancellor for credit of marks and the Committee will determine his
Pr ciency as a Sportsman according to the following criteria:
“05 Marks for Physical Test showing actual performance and endurance”
“01 Marks for Inter College Champion”
“02 Marks for District Level Champion”
“03 Marks for Divisional Level”
“04 Marks for Provincial Level”
“05 Marks for National Level or under 18 representation abroad”

ii. inrinealata! DAE/ B.Sc. Engineering Technology or equivalent marks are adjusted according to the following formula: Percentage Marks
obtained in Intermediate’ DAE/ B.Sc. Engineering Technology or equivalent + (Marks awarded by the Verification Committee/11) The
“verification committee” will meet, for this purpose, in the office of The Chairman Sports Committee along with Convener Admission Committee
will hold sports test at 9:00 am Wednesday, 14" October 2021. It may be noted that no separate call letters will be issued to the concerned
applicants in this connection.

6.

o

DETERMINATION OF MERIT IN CASE OF EQUAL PERCENTAGE OF ADMISSION MARKS

Iftwo or more applicants have equal percentage of admission marks (up to four places of decimal after truncation), they shall be treated at par for the
purpose of admission.

Explanation

In case there is a tie for the last seat in a particular discipline/category, then all the candidates who have secured equal percentage of admission
marks (up to three places of decimal) shall be admitted. No transfer or new entry into that discipline/category shall, however, be considered unless the
actual number of candidates already admitted falls below the number of allocated seats for that discipline/category.

wu

o

MERIT DETERMINED CATEGORY WISE

The seats for admission to the bachelor's degree courses at the University are distributed over various categories. These categories are discussed
below. The details of the distribution of seats are available in the Seats Allocation Chart. The applicants for each category are grouped separately.
Then on the basis of the percentage admission marks, comparative merit of the applicants comprising the group is prepared. The applicants
belonging to a category thus compete for admission amongst themselves for the seats allocated to it.

8.

o

TRANSFER ON THE BASIS OF GIVEN PREFERENCES AND MERIT
In case a seat in any discipline/category of applicant's higher preference falls vacant and he is eligible for transfer to that discipline/category on the
basis of his merit, he shall be automatically transferred to the discipline/category.

9.

o

VARIATION IN SEATS
The University authorities may exercise their right at any time to increase or decrease the number of seats allocated to any category and there shall
be no appeal against such a decision.

10.0 UN-UTILIZED SEATS
If some seats allocated to any category (other than Open Merit) remain un-utilized for lack of adequate applicants, then the un-utilized seats are
transferred to Punjab domiciled Open Merit category and are filled under the same terms and conditions as applicable to the former.

 

100 Years of Exc


 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

www.uet.edu.pk

 

APPLICATION CATEGORIES AND SYMBOLS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Category Description How to Apply?
At Only Punjab domiciled candidates, having requisite qualification Submit application to UET Lahore according to the procedure and|
[Open Merit Seats (other than DAE), can apply for open merit seats under 'A1' requirements laid down in this prospectus. The selection and allocation of
(subsiaized)] category. disciplines are made by the UET according to merit.
Tuition fee is subsidized.
A1-M Only Punjab domiciled candidates, having Intermediate (Pre-] Submit application to UET Lahore according to the procedure and}
[Open Merit Seats | Medical) qualification can apply for open merit seats under 'A1-M'| requirements laid down in this prospectus. The selection and allocation o'
(subsidized)] category. disciplines are made by the UET according to merit.
Tuition fee is subsidized.
A2 Only Punjab domiciled candidates, having requisite qualification] Submit application to UET Lahore according to the procedure and
[Open Merit Seats _| (other than DAE), can apply for open merit seats under'A2' category. | requirements laid down in this prospectus. The selection and allocation o
(partially-subsidized)] | Tyition fee is partially subsidized. disciplines are made by the UET according to merit.
A2-M Only Punjab domiciled candidates, having Intermediate (Pre-| Submit application to UET Lahore according to the procedure and
[Open Merit Seats | Medical) qualification can apply for open merit seats under 'A1-M' | requirements laid down in this prospectus. The selection and allocation 0
(partially-subsidized)] | category. disciplines are made by the UET according to merit.
Tuition fee is partially subsidized
The candidate should be a bonafide resident of the Sindh province. | Applications are to be submitted to the Registrar of the Mehran University o
B Diploma holders are also eligible to apply. Engineering and Technology or the Registrar of the N.E.D. University of
[Sindh] Tuition fee is subsidized Engineering and Technology, Karachi. Nominations and allocation o
. disciplines are sent by the Section Officer (ACD-III) Department o'
Education, Government of Sindh.
c The candidate should be a bonafide resident of the Baluchistan] Applications are to be submitted to the Secretary, Department o'
[Baluchistan] province. Diploma holders are also eligible to apply. Education, Government of Baluchistan. Nominations and allocation o}
disciplines are made by said Department.
The candidate should be a bonafide resident of the Khyber] Applications are to be submitted to the Registrar, University of Engineering
D Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) province. Diploma holders may also apply. & Technology, Peshawar. Nominations and allocations of disciplines are|
IKPK] Tuition feeis subsidized made by the Department of Higher Education, Government of Khyber|
: Pakhtunkhwa.
F1 The candidate should be national of Azad Kashmir The applications are to be submitted to the Secretary Nomination Board,
[Azad Kashmir] Tuition fee is subsidized. Azad Government of the State Jamu & Kashmir, Education Secretariat}
(Colleges), New Secretariat Chatter, Muzaffarabad Azad Kashmir.
E1 The candidate should be national of Lipa Valley, Azad Kashmir. The applications are to be submitted to the Secretary Nomination Board,
[Azad Kashmir Government of the State of Azad Jamu & Kashmir, Education Secretariat

(Lipa Valley)]

Tuition fee is subsidized.

(Col

 

 

leges), New Secretariat, Chatter, Muzaffarabad, Azad Kashmir.

 

The candidate should be bonafide resident of Northern Areas (Gilgit-

The

applications are to be submitted to the Secretary Nomination

 

 

E2 Baltistan) Board/Director of Education, Gilgit-Baltistan. Diploma holders are also}
[Northern Areas] | Tyition fee is subsidized. eligible to apply.

The candidates having foreign nationality can apply under 'H'| The application is sent in triplicate to the Ministry of Finance, Revenue,

M1 Category. The applicant is required to get his application sponsored | Economic Affairs, Statistics & Privatization (Economic Affairs Division)

[Foreign Countries]

 

by his own government. Diploma holders may also apply.
Tuition fee is subsidized.

 

Government of Pakistan, Islamabad, through Pakistan's representative|
accredited to his country. The nominations are sent by the Section Officer]

 

 

 

Ter,


www.uet.edu.pk

 

 

Finance, Revenue, Economic Affairs, Statistics & Privatization (Economic
Affairs Division) Government of Pakistan, Islamabad.

 

H2
[Afghan Nationals]

The candidates should be Afghan nationals. The applicant is required
to get his application sponsored by his government.

Tuition fee is paid by the sponsor.

The application is sent in triplicate to the Ministry of Inter Provincial Co-
ordination, Government of Pakistan, through Pakistan's representative
accredited to Afghanistan. The nominations are sent by the Assistant
Educational Advisor, Ministry of Inter Provincial Co-ordination,
Government of Pakistan, Islamabad.

 

H3
[Indian Held Kashmir]

The candidates from Indian Held Kashmir can also apply under 'H’
Category.

Tuition fee is paid by the sponsor.

The application is sent in triplicate to the Ministry of Finance, Revenue,
Economic Affairs, Statistics & Privatization (Economic Affairs Division)
Government of Pakistan, Islamabad through Pakistan's representative
accredited to his country. The nominations are sent by the Section Officer
Finance, Revenue, Economic Affairs, Statistics & Privatization (Economic
Affairs Division) Government of Pakistan, Islamabad.

 

H4
[Cultural Exchange]

The candidates having foreign nationality can apply under 'H'
Category. The applicant is required to get his application sponsored
by his own government. Diploma holders may also apply.

Tuition fee is subsidized.

The application is sent in triplicate to the Ministry of Inter Provincial
Coordination Government of Pakistan through Pakistan's representative
accredited to his country. The nominationjs are sent by the Assistant
Educational Advisor, Ministry of Inter Provincial Coordination, Government
of Pakistan, Islamabad.

 

Punjab domiciled candidates, having passed DAE in relevant field,
can apply for reserved seats under''l' category.

Submit application to UET Lahore according to the procedure and
requirements laid down in this prospectus. The selection and allocation of

 

 

[DAE] Tuition fee is subsidized. disciplines are made by the UET according to merit.
The children of commissioned officers/ gazette officials belonging to | Applications are submitted to the Headquarters of either the Army, Air
J1 Army, Air Force or Navy can apply under this category. Diploma | Force, or the Navy (depending upon the service to which the parent
[Armed Forces] holders are also eligible to apply. belongs to) in accordance with the procedure notified by them.
Tuition feeis partially subsidized Nominations and allocations of disciplines are made by:
For Army Seats
The Adjutant General, AG'S Branch (W & R Directorate), General
Headquarter, Rawalpindi
For Air Force Seats
The Deputy Director Education (TRG), Air Headquarter, Peshawar
For Navy Seats
The Director, Directorate of Naval Educational Services, Naval
Headquarter Islamabad
| a a wo Applications are submitted to the Headquarters of either the Army, Air
The children of non-commissioned and junior commissioned officers/ Force, or the Navy (depending upon the service to which the parent
J2 non-gazetted officials belonging toArmy, Air Force or Navy can apply belongs to) in accordance with the procedure notified by them.
[Armed Forces] under this category. Diploma holders are also eligible to apply. Nominations and allocations of disciplines are made by:

 

 

Tuition fee is subsidized.

 

For Army Seats

The Adjutant General, AG'S Branch (W & R Directorate), General
Headquarter, Rawalpindi

For Air Force Seats
The Deputy Director Education (TRG), Air Headquarter, Peshawar
For Navy Seats

 

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

 


Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

www.uet.edu.pk

 

 

The Director, Directorate of Naval Educational Services, Naval
Headquarter Islamabad

 

K
[FATA]

The applicant should be a bonafide resident of the erstwhile Federally
Administered Tribal Areas (FATA). Diploma holders are also eligible to
apply.

The applications are submitted to the Secretary, State and Frontier Regions
Divisions, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad. Nominations and allocation
of disciplines are also made by him.

 

L

[South, Central and
North Punjab]

The applicant should be a bonafide resident of any of the following
districts: Bahawalnagar, Bahawalpur, Rahim Yar Khan, Rajanpur,
Muzaffargarh, Jhang, Attock, Chakwal, Mianwali, Dera Ghazi Khan
and Jhelum.

Tuition fee is subsidized.

Applications are to be submitted to the UET Lahore according to the
procedure and requirements laid down in this prospectus. The selection
andallocation of disciplines are made by the University according to merit.

 

M
[UET Employees]

The un-married children of employees of UET Lahore can apply
under this category. Diploma holders are also eligible to apply.
However, in order to determine relevant merit, Diploma holders will be
placed below applicants possessing Intermediate. (Pre-
Engineering).

For inclusion in this category the applicant's parent has to fulfill the
conditions regarding University service given in Form F-V.

Applications are to be submitted to the UET Lahore according to the
procedure and requirements laid down in this prospectus. Application
should accompany with certificate from the Registrar of the University on
Form F-V and a certificate of being unmarried by a class-| gazetted officer or
a University class-A officer on Form F-VI. The selection and allocation of
disciplines are made by the University according to merit.

Note: Children of employees whose services have been transferred to the
University of Engineering & Technology Taxila are not eligible to apply under
the category as their quota of seats has also been transferred to the
University of Engineering & Technology Taxila.

 

 

N

[Engineers]

The Punjab domiciled children of Engineers, Architects and Town
Planners can apply under this category. Diploma holders cannot
apply.

Tuition fee is partially subsidized.

Applications are to be submitted to the University according to the
procedure and requirements laid down in this prospectus. The selection
and allocation of disciplines are made by the University according to merit.

The applicants should furnish with their applications an attested photocopy
of their parent's bachelor's degree in Engineering, Architecture or City &
Regional Planning from a recognized University along with PEC/PCATP
registration. Other qualifications such as AMIE (Pak) are not recognized for
inclusion in this category.

 

NM
[Non Muslim]

Only Punjab domiciled candidates, having requiste qualification
(other the DAE), can apply for seats for religious minorities under'NM'
catagory.

Tuition fee is partially subsidized.

Submit applicant to UET Lahore according to the procedure and
requirements laid down in this prospectus. The selection and allocation of
disciplines are made by the UET according to merit.

 

0
[Alumni]

The Punjab domiciled children of Alumni of UET Lahore can apply
under this category. Diploma holders cannot apply.

Tuition fee is partially subsidized.

Applications are submitted to the University according to the procedure and
requirements. The selection and allocation of discipline is made by the
University according to merit.

The applicant should furnish with his application an attested photocopy
of the PEC/PCATP registration and degree of his parent as an evidence
of the fact that he (the parent) is a graduate of this University or its
parent institution, that is, the former College of Engineering.

 

 

P
[B.Tech.]

 

The applicant should be a bonafide resident of Punjab and should
have passed B.Sc. Engineering Technology or equivalent degree
from a HEC recognized university of Pakistan.

Tuition Fee is subsidized.

 

Applications are to be submitted to the University according to the
procedure and requirements. Selection and allocation of disciplines are
made by the University according to merit.

 

 

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Q The applicant should be a bonafide resident of the Tribal Areas of | Applications are submitted to the DCO of respective district. Nominations
[DGK and Rajanpur] D.G. Khan and Rajanpur. Diploma holders are not eligible to apply. | are made by the DCOs on merit.
Tuition fee is subsidized.
R The applicant should be a bonafide resident of Layyah and Applications are submitted to the University according to the procedure
Bhakkar districts. and requirements laid down in this prospectus. The selection and
[Layyah and Bhakkar] Tuition fee's subsidized, allocation of disciplines are made by the University according to merit.
Applications are submitted to the University according to the procedure
The children of overseas Pakistanis, having requisite qualification SR ice felis ii
S, Sl other than DAE, can apply under'S' category. The applicant is required to submit along with his application: ,
[Overseas] The children of overseas Pakistanis, having passed DAE, can i. Acertificate on Form F-VIll regarding his parent's employment in a
apply under 'SI' category. . foreign country issued by the Pakistani embassy in that country
ii. A photocopy of his parent's resident visa for that country attested by|
Orphan candidates meeting eligibility requirements may be \ the esa nwassy n bmeevied dar thie. Gat followi
sponsored by their real brother, real maternal or real paternal N case OF af Orphall applicant app ying Under. this category, fokowing
uncle: additional documents are required: (1) Father's death certificate Issued by
Be ‘ : wae NADRA,; (2) Proof of relationship with the guardian in the form of CNIC ofall
Tuition'fae is partially subsidized. family members and NADRA Family Registration Certificate (FRC)
highlighting the Family Tree structure of the applicant; (3) Copy of
Nikahnama in case the guardian is the maternal uncle (Mamoo) of the
applicant.
Scanned / faxed copy of employment certificate and visa shall not be
entertained.
SF Higher Education Commission (HEC), Islamabad, Self Finance Applications are received at HEC, Islamabad, by Director (Academics),
Scheme for Foreign Nationals. HEC, H-9, Islamabad, Pakistan. Information is available on HEC website
[Self Finance for iti 5 - i www.hec.gov.pk. Selected candidates are nominated by the Higher
Foreign Nationals] Tuition fee is parbally Subsidized: Education Commission of Pakistan.
T Punjab domiciled disabled candidates, excluding the disability of | Applications, along with a medical certificate mentioning the disability are
deafness, dumbness and blindness, can apply under this category. | Submitted to the UET Lahore according to the procedure and requirements
[Disabled] laid down in this prospectus. The selection and allocation of disciplines are
made by the University according to merit.
U1 These seats are for students of Baluchistan, under project Applications are received by Project Director (BAL-FATA Project), Higher
provision of “Higher Education Opportunities for Students of FATA | Education Commission, H-9, Islamabad. Selected candidates are
[Bal-FATA] and Baluchistan’. nominated by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan.
U2 These seats are for students of FATA, under project provision of | Applications are received by Project Director (BAL-FATA Project), Higher
“Higher Education Opportunities for Students of FATA and Education Commission, H-9, Islamabad. Selected candidates are
[Bal-FATA] Baluchistan”. nominated by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan.

 

Applications will be received on-line. Candidates are not required to submit any document or visit the university. However, officials will be available to provide guidance to candidates, if they so
require.

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

APPLICATION FILLING AND SUBMISSION

1. CORRECTNESS OF INFORMATION ON THE APPLICATION FORM
It is your responsibility to enter correct information while filling the on-line application. In case of deliberate concealment of information or
misinformation, admission, if offered, will be liable to be cancelled and the candidate will be placed in the HEC blacklist through public notification and
will become ineligible to apply in any HEC institution.

2. DATAENTRY BY CANDIDATES SEEKING ADMISSION IN BBA, BBIT
Candidates seeking admission in BBA and BBIT and who have not appeared in the Combined Entry Test, will choose the button of BBA/ BBIT
Applicant on the admission portal at https://admission.uet.edu.pk. They will then be asked to fill in their personal information. On completing the
personal information, they will be asked to upload their photograph (Picture format JPG, PNG, Max File up to 1.0 MB). After uploading their picture,
they will press the submit button. On successful submission, they will receive an e-mail at their e-mail address giving them their Roll number.

2.1 Purchasing Prospectus for Admission Code
Admission Code is available on the inside of the back-title cover of the prospectus. This code is valid for only one on-line admission application
submission.
2.2 Getting the Admission Code On-line
In case you have NOT purchased the prospectus, you may get the Admission Code on-line by:
a) Login to the admission portal https://admission.uet.edu.pk
b) Select “Generate UG Admission Challan” button on the admission portal.
c) Youwill be asked to enter your name, father's name and CNIC number.
d) Achallan number will be generated. You may pay the application fee using this number on-line using one of the following options:

1. Payment through HBL/ Konnect APP.
i. Login tothe Konnect mobile application and tap the” LIFESTYLE” button.
ii. Select “EDUCATION” option.
iii. Tap on “SCHOOL FEE”.
iv. Alistof institutions will appear. Select UET Lahore and enter Challan Number.
v. After verifying your name, make the payment.
vi. Nowyou may use this paid Challan Number as your Admission Code.

2. Paymentthrough HBL On-line Banking (For HBL Account Holders only)
i. Login to the HBL on-line banking application on your computer or mobile if you have access toa HBL account.
ii. Select “MORE?” option.
iii. Select “EDUCATION” under Bill Payment category.
iv. Alistofinstitutions will appear. Select UET Lahore and enter Challan Number.
v. After verifying yourname, make the payment.
vi. Nowyou may use this paid Challan Number as your Admission Code.

Note: Paid Challan number may be used to get your copy of the prospectus from UET Students Section/ Admission Office at your convenience.

3. INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING THE ONLINE APPLICATION FORM
a) Youwillfill the admission application form by logging into https://admission.uet.edu.pk 5

100 Years of Excellence


Es Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

b) Youwillbe asked to enter the following information:

Entry Test Roll Number

Date of Birth

CNIC Number

Verification Code

On the next screen, you will see your personal information, which you entered while submitting the Entry Test Form.

In case you are applying based on Intermediate examination, you will be required to:

i. Enterthe name of Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education (BISE) and your registration number in Intermediate examination.

ii. Enter your obtained and total marks in Intermediate examination.

e) Incase you are applying based on DAE examination, you will be required to:

i. Enterthe name of Board of Technical Education and your registration number in DAE examination.

ii. Enterthe name of your diploma.

iii. Enter your obtained and total marks in DAE.

f) Incase you are applying based on “A” level or equivalent foreign examination, you will be required to:

i. Enter your candidate number in the “A” level examination.

ii. Enterthe IBCC equivalence certificate number and date issued (if available).

iii. Enter your obtained and total marks as indicated on the IBCC equivalent certificate.

iv. Ifyoudonothave an IBCC equivalence certificate, you may visit the IBCC website and enter the marks according to IBCC formulas. Kindly
note that original IBCC equivalence certificate will be required from admitted candidates.

g) Incase you are applying based on B.Sc. Engineering Technology or equivalent qualification, you will be required to:

i. Enterthe name of your degree, name of the university and university registration number.

ii. Enter your obtained and total CGPA. If you have earned percentage marks, you may enter the obtained and total marks.

h) Nextyou will be asked if you are claiming to be a hafiz-e-qura'an or a sportsperson. In case you claim to be one or both, separate admit cards for
Hafiz-e-qura'an and sports person tests will be available to you for printing. You will report for the said tests on the dates and locations printed on
the admit cards.

i) | Nextyouwill choose your preferences for programs/ disciplines, campuses and categories.

j) | Utmost care must be exercised while giving preferences. The following aspects must be keptin mind while filling the preferences:

e Preferences of disciplines, campuses and categories once chosen and submitted cannot be changed. Ineligible category will result in
cancellation of the application.

e@ Norequest for freezing by a candidate, admitted in the lower preference discipline, would be entertained. The candidate will continue to be
considered for movement into his/her higher preference in subsequent meritlists.

e Candidates must note that after the display of merit list, no application would be entertained for moving to a lower merit preference.
Applications for moving into lower merit preference would only be accepted on-line from admitted candidates only, after the last merit list as
per announced schedule.

k) Muslim candidates will be asked to click the check box on the Finality of Prophethood declaration form.

!)  Youwillscan and upload the following documents:

e Applicable result on the basis of which you are applying, that is, Intermediate final result card; or DAE final result card; or “A” level/ IBCC
equivalent result; or B.Tech. or equivalent transcript.

e Domicile certificate.

m) Once your application is complete, you will be asked to submitit. After submission, your application is final and submitted in university's records.
You may printa copy for your own record.

Bl

 

100 Years of Ex


www.uet.edu.pk

 

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTED CANDIDATES

1. NOTIFICATION OF SELECTION

Alist of selected candidates will be put up on the University notice boards and on the UET web site https://admission.uet.edu.pk as well. Kindly note

that no written offer letter would be dispatched to selected candidates. It is responsibility of the candidate to remain abreast with the status of

admissions as available on the website and on the notice boards.

IMPORTANT:

a) Consideration in the Next Merit lists

Admissions are granted on merit and according to preferences given by the applicants. An applicant who secures admission in a discipline
of his lower preference and he desires to be considered in next merit lists, must submit all the dues and documents. If he fails to do so, his
name would be excluded from any future merit lists and his admission would be cancelled.

b) Admission made as a result of an error, omission or mistake shall not confer any right on an applicant.

2. DEPOSITING OF DUES AND DOCUMENTS
Within the prescribed time, a selected candidate is required to pay the University dues and submit the following documents in a manner prescribed on
the website https://admission.uet.edu.pk to the Deputy Registrar, Students Section:

a) Paid Original Bank Challan as proof of payment of dues. On-line payment facility is available through Habib Bank Limited (HBL)
internet banking/ Mobile application, HBL Konnect and ATMs. Candidate must keep photocopies of this challan/ proof of payment for
his/her own record and for submission to the department.

b) One set of photocopies of each educational document including domicile.

Cc) Original applicable certificates and degree, like Matric/"O”-Level, Intermediate./ “A’-Level, Diploma of Associate Engineer (DAE), B.Sc.
Engineering Technology or any equivalent qualifications.

d) Six copies of the most recent passport size photograph

e) Two copies of CNIC/ “B” Form.

f)  Bio-data card Form-I| duly completed in all respects.

g) Medical Certificate Form-II duly signed and stamped by Medical Practitioner registered with PMC.

h) Duly attested Current Income certificate of the parent/ guardian.

i) | Undertaking (Sample Form -VII) on a Rs. 100/- judicial paper duly completed.

2.1 Additional Documents for Specific Categories

 

Category M Original certificate from the Registrar of the UET Lahore on prescribed Form-V and an undertaking of being unmarried on

 

 

Form-VI
Category N Attested photocopy of the relevant degree and PEC/PCATP registration of applicant's father or mother
Category O Attested photocopy of the degree issued by UET Lahore and PEC/PCATP registration of applicant's father or mother

 

Original certificate on prescribed Form F-VIll regarding parent's employment in a foreign country and a photocopy of his
resident visa attested by the Pakistan embassy in that country.

Category S & SI | Incase of an orphan applicant applying under this category, following additional documents are required: (1) Father's death
certificate issued by NADRA,; (2) Proof of relationship with the guardian in the form of CNIC of all family members and NADRA
Family Registration Certificate (FRC) highlighting the Family Tree structure of the applicant; (3) Copy of Nikahnama in case
the guardian is the maternal uncle (Mamoo) of the applicant. Scanned / faxed copy of employment certificate and visa shall
not be entertained.

 

 

 

 

27

100 Years of Excellen


Es Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

2.2 For Punjab Domiciled Applicants Who Possess Qualifications from Outside Punjab
Applicants for categories A1, A2, L, N, Q & R who have passed both the Secondary School Examination and the Higher Secondary School
Examination from any Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, not included in the Punjab province or Federal Capital Areas,
Islamabad; Or, applicants for category | who passed their Diploma of Associate Engineer from a Board of Technical Education other than that of
Punjab; Or, applicants for category P who have passed their B.Sc. Engineering Technology or equivalent degree other than the University of
Engineering and Technology, Lahore, are required to submit the additional documents as prescribed below:
a) Children of Government Servants
If the parent of the applicant is a government servant who belongs to Punjab but is serving in any other province of Pakistan, then the
parent should produce a certificate on Form -V from the head of his Department affirming that he is a permanent resident of the Punjab. It
shall be necessary in such cases that the period of the applicant's study corresponds with the period of the posting of the parent in that
province.
b) Children of the Armed Forces Personnel
In addition to the seats reserved for the category J, the children of the Armed Forces Personnel can apply for admission on basis of merit
against seats reserved for their province of domicile or the seats reserved for the province in which their parent (the member of the Armed
Forces) is posted. Thus, an applicant who is domiciled in Sindh but his parent is posted in Punjab can apply against seats reserved for
Sindh or against seats reserved for Punjab. However, if he applies under category A1 or A2, he has to submit with his application a
certificate from the GOC of the area regarding the place of his parent's posting.
c) Allother applicants must submit the following additional documents
i. Anattested Photocopy of father's/mother's domicile certificate of the Punjab Province or the Federal Capital area, Islamabad
ii, Documentary proofin the form of a certificate on Form -VI from the election officer of concerned area of the Punjab Province/Federal
Capital Area, Islamabad to the effect that name of the applicant's father/mother appears in the electoral rolls
iii. An attested photocopy of the relevant page of the electoral rolls on which the name of the father/mother of the applicant appears
iv. Anattested photocopy of the identity card of the applicant's father/mother
d) Applicant whose father is not alive
In case his father is not alive, and the above documents cannot be produced, the applicant should submit:
i. Documentary proof of his father's death
ii, Documentary evidence of his parent's immovable property in Punjab or Federal Capital Area, Islamabad

4. RELAXATION IN TIME LIMIT
Ifa selected candidate is prevented by unavoidable circumstances from timely fulfillment of the requirements laid down in the above clause, then he
should intimate the Convener Admission Committee about it within the prescribed time limit along with relevant documentary proof. The Convener,
Admission Committee may, at his discretion, grant relaxation in the time limit.

2. FORFEITURE OF RIGHT OF ADMISSION
A selected candidate who fails to fulfill the requirements laid down in the above clause within the prescribed time-limit shall forfeit his right of
admission.

3. PROVISIONALADMISSION
On fulfillment of the obligations mentioned in the above clause a selected candidate will be admitted to the University. This admission shall, however,
be provisional until all the original degrees or certificates submitted by him have been checked for their veracity. In case any document proves to be
false, fake, or fabricated at a later stage, a provisionally admitted student shall be liable to expulsion from the University and to any other disciplinary
or legal action the University may deem fit. Moreover, all the fees and charges deposited by him shall stand forfeited in favour of the University.

 

100 Years of Exc


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

4. WARNING
IF AT ANY STAGE, A STUDENT IS FOUND INDULGING IN POLITICS, HIS ADMISSION WILL BE CANCELLED AS REFERRED TO IN
UNDERTAKING FORM-VII.

5. DEADLINEFORADMISSION
Admission shall be closed after the expiry of thirty days from the commencement or registration of the first-year class.

Note: Applicable to all the candidates who apply for admission on "merit" as well as under "reserved" seats

6. NOTIFICATION OF SELECTION OF CATEGORIESB, C, D, E1, £2, H1,H2,H3,H4, J1,J2,K,Q,U1&U2
The applicants for the seats reserved for these categories will be informed about selections by the authorities responsible for their selection. After that
the University will issue them call letters with a target date to report in the Students Section to complete the remaining admission formalities within the
stipulated time.

7. HOSTEL ACCOMMODATION
a) Hostel accommodation is limited and is provided on the basis of merit. Local students are not eligible to apply.
b) The selectees for Lahore Campus may apply to Senior Warden, University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore for hostel accommodation
on prescribed application form obtainable from Senior Warden's office, along with the following documents:
Two attested photographs
Anattested photocopy of the domicile certificate; and
Attested photocopy of Bank Challan from the Habib Bank (Engineering University Branch).
c) The candidate selected for admission at Kala Shah Kaku campus, Faisalabad Campus and Narowal Campus should apply to Hostel Warden of
the respective campus for hostel accommodation.
d) Forhostel accommodation at Rachna College of Engineering and Technology, candidate should apply to Hostel Warden of Rachna College of
Engineering and Technology, Gujranwala.

NOTE: —ITIS NOT ARIGHT/PRIVILEGE OF STUDENT TO GET HOSTEL ACCOMMODATION. IT IS SOLELY AT THE DISCRETION OF THE UNIVERSITY TO

OFFER A PLACE INAHOSTEL. A STUDENT INVOLVED IN ANY ACT OF MISCONDUCT, ILL DISCIPLINE, VIOLATION OF RULES AND INVOLVEMENT
INANY POLITICALACTIVITY SHALL BE INELIGIBLE FOR HOSTEL ACCOMMODATION.

29

100 Years of Excellence


LAHORE CAMPUS




Faculty of
Electrical Engineering




34

Dean
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Kamran

Chairman
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Tahir

Professors

Dr. Muhammad Imran Sheikh
Dr. Muhammad Asghar Saqib
Dr. Kashif Javed

Associate Professors
Dr. Asim Loan

Dr. Irfanullah Chaudhary
Dr. Umar Tabrez Shami

Dr. Syed Abdul Rahman Kashif
Dr. Farhan Mahmood

Dr. Rabia Nazir

Dr. Haq Nawaz

Assistant Professors

Dr. Ahsan Tahir

Dr. Nauman Ahmed

Dr. Syed Shah Irfan Hussain
Mr. Naveed Nawaz

Mr. Arslan Abdul Rahim

Dr. Omer Lateef

Mr. Muhammad Bilal

Dr. Ubaid Ullah Fayyaz

Dr. Adeem Aslam

 

Dr. Awais Yousaf
Dr. Hasan Erteza Gelani

Lecturers

Mr. Muhammad Anique Aslam
Mr. Muhammad Salman Fakhar
Ms. Noor ul Ain

Mr. Suleman Sami Qazi

Mr. Omar Imtiaz

Mr. Muhammad Ali Shafiq

Mr. Umar Shahid

Ms. Tehrina Ismail

Ms. Aqsa Ahmad

Mr. Rehan Naeem

Mr. Khalid Butt

The Department was established in 1923 as a part of the Maclagan Engineering College. Currently, it has a total student enrollment of about 1100

including both graduate and undergraduate students.

 

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Mission
To ensure understanding and application of electrical engineering fundamentals by inculcating analysis and design skills for betterment of humanity and to
become a centre of excellence in the field electrical engineering.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Graduates will be able to opt a range of careers as manufacturing engineers, services engineers and entrepreneurs.
PEO-02: Graduates will be able to be a part of international academia as students and researchers.
PEO-03: Graduates will demonstrate higher standards of moral and ethical values.
PEO-04: Graduates will be able to lead their teams, departments and organizations.

Courses of Study
The Department offers the following programs:
a) B.Sc. Electrical Engineering
b) M.Sc. Electrical Engineering with the following specializations:
e Computer
e Electronics and Communications
e Power Systems
c) M.Sc. Telecommunication Networks
d) Ph.D. Electrical Engineering

The bachelor's degree curriculum provides exposure to basic knowledge in Physics and Mathematics followed by an intensive coverage of the principles
of Electrical Engineering both in classrooms and Laboratories. To stimulate their imaginations, students are assigned projects at appropriate stages.
Furthermore, the curriculum is regularly revised to cater for the contemporary needs of the field of engineering. In order to reinforce the liaison between
industry and academia, a final year project exhibition is held every year to provide the students with an opportunity to manifest their technical acumen.
Internships in the local industry provide the students with hands on experience in industrial equipment. The technical ideas.

Laboratories and other Facilities
The Department has the following well-equipped Laboratories:

Analog and Digital Electronics Applied Electricity

Basic Electrical Engineering Communication Systems
Computer Networking Computer Systems

Control Systems Digital Signal Processing

High Voltage Engineering Industrial and Power Electronics

Microcomputer/Microcontroller Interfacing

PCB Manufacturing, SMD placing and soldering
Project Design

Electrical Machines

Microwave Engineering

Power Systems

SUPCON Automation

ZTE -UET Telecommunication Center

Department has highly qualified and experienced faculty with most of the Ph.D. faculty members qualified from reputed national and international
universities. Research work being carried out at the Department, has direct bearing on the needs of national industry. Faculty members and postgraduate
students are engaged in research and publish papers in national and international journals and conferences. Many faculty members have won research
grants from HEC and ICT R&D funds.

The Department also organizes seminars and workshops frequently in various areas of electrical, electronics, computer, and control engineering. Faculty
members and prominent researchers from home and abroad deliver these seminars. 35

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

B.Sc. Electrical Engineering

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

PHY 123 Mechanics and Wave Motion PHY 132 Electricity and Magnetism
ME 238 Thermodynamics MA 224 Multivariate Calculus

IS 101 Islamic and Pakistan Studies/Ethics EE 100 Electric Circuits

MA 123 Calculus EE 133 Programming Fundamentals

EE 132 Introduction to Computing and Data Science EE 101 Electrical and Electronics Workshop
HU 111 Communication Skills MA 229 Ordinary Differential Equations

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
EE 110 Circuit Analysis and Design
EE 250 Electric Machinery Fundamentals
HU 221 Technical Writing and Presentation Skills
MA 234 Linear Algebra
EE 233 Discrete Mathematics
ME 100L Workshop Practice

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OS] w] wo] wo] ro] oo
a} alolo]=]=

 

NR] oO] w] w]e] o
o} =] =] a=] of=

 

 

 

 

 

 

EE 216 Electronic Devices and Circuits
EE 220 Signals and Systems

EE 272 Digital Systems

EE 302 Applied Probability

EE 234 Data Structures and Algorithms
HU 1XX International Language

 

 

 

 

Of ry] wlwlwleo
alolofo}=|=

 

Ofry]wolwlwolo
alalofs}jo}]=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
EE 273 Microprocessor Systems 3 1 EE 312/EE 439] Power Electronics*/Introduction to Machine Learning 3 1
EE 356 Power Transmission, Distribution and Utilization 3 0 EE 451/EE 384] Power System Analysis and Design/Digital Signal 3 0
EE 322 Analog and Digital Communications 3 1 Processing 3 1
EE 384 Electromagnetics and Its Applications 3 0 IEE 452/EE 475) Renewable Electrical Energy Systems/Computer 3 0
XYZ Non-Engineering Elective 3 0 EE 486 Architecture*/Microwave and Antenna Engineering*
EE 340 Control Systems 2 1
MGT 428 | Professional Ethics 0 4
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
EE 453/EE 432] Power System Operation and Control/Computer 3 1 EE 450/EE 431/| High Voltage Engineering/Operating System/Industrial | 3 1
Networks EE 411/EE 419] Control Systems/Electrical Instruments and
EE 454/EE 476] Power System Protection/Introduction to VLSI Systems| 3 1 EE 456/EE 425/| Measurements
IS 201 Islamic and Pakistan Studies-lI/Ethics 3 0 EE 414 Introduction to Smart Grids/Wireless Communication* | 3 0
MGT Management Elective | 3 0 /Integrated Electronic Circuits*
EE 499a__| Project (Phase-l) 0 3 MGT Management Elective II 3 0
EE 499b _| Project (Phase I!) 0 3

 



Dean Associate Professors Dr. Muhammad Awais Hassan
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Kamran Dr. MuhammadAslam Dr. Sheikh Faisal Rashid
Dr. Usman Ghani Khan Dr.Amna Zafar
Chairman Dr. Muhammad Junaid Arshad Dr. SadafHina
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Shoaib Dr. Taugir Ahmad
Dr. Amjad Farooq Lecturers
Professor Mr. Atif Hussain
Prof. Dr. ShaziaArshad Assistant Professors Mr. Samyan Wahla
Dr. Talha Waheed Ms. Farheen Ramzan

Dr. Syed Khaldoon Khurshid

Introduction

The Department of Computer Science is one of the most prominent and oldest centers of computer education in the country. Its history dates back to the
year 1968 when UET Lahore established a Computer Center under the supervision of Department of Mathematics. The center was equipped with a
contemporary IBM 1130 third generation batch processing system that was equipped with a disk and a monitor. The center was responsible for teaching of
courses in Computer Science and Numerical Analysis, which formed an integral part of the curricula for all disciplines of B.Sc. Engineering degrees offered
by UET. The center also offered short term computer courses for private and public sector organizations. A Bachelor degree program in computer science
center was started in 1976. In 1978, the course was upgraded to M.Sc. Computer Science degree that makes the Department the first center in the country
to offer graduate program in computer science. The center became an independent department of Computer Science in 1991. The Department holds an

 

37

 

 


_B

www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

 

endowment chair given by His Majesty Sultan Qaboos Bin Said-Al-Said, Sultan of Oman.

Mission
To impart high quality computing education to the students in order to develop critical thinking, analytical skills and abilities to solve real-world problems for
the technological and socio-economic development.

Degree Program

A four years degree program leading towards a B.Sc. (Hons) Computer Science was introduced by the Department in 1999. For students enrolling from
September 2003 onwards, B.Sc. program has been renamed and modified into four years B.Sc. Computer Science (CS) program. The B.Sc. CS program
is accredited by National Computing Education Accreditation Council (NCEAC). A minimum of 135 credit hours are required for the completion of the
program.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Graduates demonstrate theoretical and practical knowledge and skills of computer science to solve real-world complex problems.
PEO-02: Graduates demonstrate professionalism, leadership qualities and engage in continuous learning of new developments in diverse
fields of computing.
PEO-03: Graduates communicate effectively, work in a multidisciplinary team environment and exhibit an awareness of the professional and
social responsibility by making an impact on the society in an ethical manner.

The Department launched M.S. Computer science program in 2003, whereas a Ph.D. program in Computer Science was launched in 2002.

Facilities

With expansion in academic programs, there are four computer laboratories in the Department. These laboratories are equipped with 160 latest fully
networked computers with state of the art servers. In addition, the Department has an FYP Lab. Computer to student ratio is 1:1. The Department is proud
ofits no-piracy policy. All the operating systems installed are either licensed or open-source operating systems.

Department's computing facilities are linked with UET Research Center, Main Library and other teaching departments through a fiber optic backbone.
Multimedia projectors are fitted where required in the class rooms and high speed internet facility is available in all laboratories. Department's class rooms
are located in a purposely built adjacent building known as New Lecture Theaters.

 

 


Se

www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
B.Sc. Computer Science
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
CS-161 Programming Fundamentals 3 1 CS-162 Object Oriented Programming (CS-161) 3 1
CS-102 Introduction to Computing 3 1 CMPE-222 | Digital Logic Design (PHY-111) 3 1
HU-102 Functional English 3 0 HU-240 Psychology 3 0
MA-123 Calculus 3 0 HU-111 Communication Skills (Lab) 0 1
PHY-111 Applied Physics 2 1 LMA-224 Multi-Variaite Calculus (MA-123) 3 0
ME-100L | Workshop Practice 0 1 MA-343 Applied Probability & Statistics 3 0
IS-XXX Translation of the Holy Quran 1 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
CS-261 Data Structures and Algorithms (CS-162) 3 1 CS-262 Database Systems (CS-261) 3 1
HU-221 Technical writing and Presentation Skills (CMPE-222) | 3 0 CS-263 Operating Systems (CS-261) 3 1
CS-271 Computer Organization and Assembly Language 3 1 MA-228 Differential Equations (MA-224) 3 0
MA-234 Linear Algebra 3 0 CS-272 Design and Analysis of Algorithms (CS-261) 3 0
CS-261 Discrete Mathematics 3 0 CS-273 Theory of Automata (CS-261) 3 0
IS-XXX Translation of the Holy Quran 1 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
CS-364 Information Security (CS-261) 3 0 CS-373 Computer Networks (CS-263) 3 1
CS-371 Artificial Intelligence (CS-261) 3 1 CS-39x Computer Science Elective-2 3 0
CS-301 Professional Practices in Software Development 3 0 CS-39x Computer Science Elective-3 3 0
CS-39x Computer Science Elective-1 3 0 CS-380 Graph Theory (CS-261) 3 0
CS-165 Software Engineering 3 1 CS-372 Parallel and Distributed Computing (CS-263) 3 0
IS-XXX Translation of the Holy Quran 1 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
CS-465 Final Year Project- 0 3 CS-466 Final Year Project-II (CS-465) 0 3
CS-471 Compiler Construction (CS-273) 3 1 MGT-414 | Entrepreneurship & Business Management 3 0
CS-49x Computer Science Elective-4 3 0 IS-201 Islamic & Pakistan Studies-II 3 0
1S-101 Islamic & Pakistan Studies-| 3 0 HU-XXX International Language 0 0
CS-49x Computer Science Elective-5 3 0 MGT-424 | Leadership Strategies 3 0
IS-XXX Translation of the Holy Quran 1 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


www.uet.edu.pk

Eee ore Crt)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course No. Subject
CS-381 Computer Architecture

CS-481 Real Time Systems

CS-382 Operations Research

CS-383 Simulation and Modelling

CS-384 Introduction to Data Science
CS-385 Internet of Things

CS-482 Big Data Analytics

CS-483 Cloud Computing

CS-386 Database Administration

CS-387 Database Performance & Optimization
CS-388 Database Backup & Recovery
CS-389 Distributed Databases

CS-484 Data Warehousing

CS-581 Graph Databases

CS-582 Web semantics

CS-351 Computer Graphics

CS-485 Computer Vision and Image Processing
SE-325 UX/UI Design

SE-221 Human Computer Interaction
CS-487 Ethical Hacking

CS-353 Management Information Systems
CS-488 Information Retrieval

CS-354 Natural Language Processing
CS-355 Data Mining

CS-489 Machine Learning

 

 

 

Eee (eer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course No. Subject

CS-490 Soft Computing

CS-491 Wireless Networks

CS-492 Internetworking with Unix TCP/IP
CS-390 System Programming

CS-391 Web Technologies

CS-392 Game Development

CS-393 Open Source Software Development
CS-493 Enterprise Application Development
CS-394 Mobile Application Development
CS-494 E-Commerce

CS-395 Introduction to Programming Languages
CS-396 Object Oriented Analysis and Design
CS-397 Design Patterns

CS-495 Software Design & Architecture

SE-211 Software Requirements Engineering
SE-331 Software Quality Engineering

SE- 332 Software Measurement & Metrics
CS-497 Intro to Program Analysis

CS-498 Formal Methods

SE-442 Software Re-Engineering

SE-441 Software Project Management

CS-583 Leading Software Teams

CS-584 Habits of Highly Effective Software Engineer
CS-585 Personal, Team and Executive Software Processes
CS-586 Logical Paradigms of Computing

 

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

 


| isd 4 pees NG

ee ome ens ees

Dean Associate Professors Ms. Ayesha Shafqat

Prof. Dr. Habib-ur-Rehman Dr. Yasir Saleem
Dr. Muhammad Faisal Hayat Lecturers

Chairman:Ali Hammad akbar
assocaiate prof:Ms. Sahar Waqar

Dr. Ali Hammad Akbar Assistant Professors
Dr. Tania Habib Teaching Fellow

Professors Dr.Asim Rehmat Mr. Mudasir Dilawar

Prof. Dr. Muhammad Shahbaz Dr. Fareed Ud Din Mehmood Jafri Mr. Raja Muzammil Muneer
Dr. BeenishAyesha Akram Ms. Bakhtawar BintAmjad
Ms. Hina Khalid

Introduction

The University of Engineering and Technology Lahore (UET) is the pioneer institute that started computing education at the undergraduate level in the
country. A four years degree program as B.Sc. (Hons) in Computer Science and Engineering was initiated in 2001. For students enrolling from September
2003 onwards, this B.Sc. program was renamed and modified into four years B.Sc. Computer Engineering (CE) program. CE program is accredited by
Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) since its inception till date. The CE department was established as a separate entity in 2020.

Our graduates are employed in international organizations such as Microsoft Bing, Google, Amazon, ORACLE, IBM and SalesForce. Our graduates
have a good job market share in local industry such as Techlogix, Powersoft19, Netsol, 12C, Xavor, Mentor Graphics, I2C, Systems etc. Many of them are
entrepreneurs of organization at National and International levels.

 

100 Years of Excellence


Spi eetpe Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

Mission
To disseminate computing education emphasizing entrepreneurship and ethical standards while encouraging the students to familiarize with latest
developments in research, tools and processes and use their skills to identify and find solution to society's problems.

Programs
Undergraduate Program
B.Sc. Computer Engineering

Postgraduate Programs
a) M.Sc. Computer Engineering
b) Ph.D. Computer Engineering

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Graduates will be able to excel in careers with enhancement in their knowledge and skills as researchers, system engineers, services
engineers and entrepreneurs.
PEO-02: Graduates will be effective in society and diverse professional environments maintaining high standards of ethics.
PEO-03: Graduates will be able to communicate effectively, demonstrate leadership qualities and professional integrity.

Laboratories:

e Industrial Automation
Embedded Systems Design
Electronics Systems
Computer
Project
Postgraduate research

 


Se

 

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 eee

B.Sc. Computer Engineering

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
PHY-123 Mechanics and Waves Motion PHY-132 Electicity and Magnetism
HU-102 Functional English MA-224 Multivariate Calculus
ME-100 Workshop Practice CMPE-121 | Circuit Analysis
LIS-101 Islamic & Pakistan Studies-| MA-229 Ordinary Differential Equations
MA-123 Calculus - Single Variable CMPE-112 | Fundamentals of Programming & Data Science
CMPE-111 | Introduction to Computing HU-XXX International Language
QT-101 Translation of the Holy Quran-I

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

CMPE-221 | Circuits and Electronic Devices MA-234. Linear Algebra
CMPE-222 | Digital Logic Design CMPE-271 | Signals and Systems

HU-111 Communication Skills CMPE-223 | Computer Organization
LCMPE-211 | Object Oriented Programming CMPE-252 | Probability and Random Variables
CMPE-251 | Discrete Mathematical Structures CMPE-212 | Data Structures and Algorithms

QT-201 Translation of the Holy Quran-Il

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
HU-221 Technical Writing and Presentation Skills MGT-410 | Project Management
CMPE-331 | Operating Systems CMPE-333 | Computer Networks
CMPE-311 | Software Engineering CMPE-371 | Digital Signal Processing
CMPE-341 | Artificial Intelligence CMPE-321 | Embedded Systems
CMPE-332 | Database Systems IME-262 Machine Design & CAD
QT-301 Translation of the Holy Quran-Ill

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr

MGT-414 | Enterpreneurship and Business Management IS-201 Islamic & Pakistan Studies-ll
CMPE-421 | Computer Architecture CMPE-492_| Final Year Project ||

CMPE-491 | Final Year Project | CMPE-4XX_ | Computer Engineering Elective III
CMPE-4XX | Computer Engineering Elective CMPE-4XX | Computer Engineering Elective IV
CMPE-4XX | Computer Engineering Elective QT-401 Translation of the Holy Quran-IV

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OS] we] ro] wl] wo] wo
of aJo}a}o}a

 

a} wl] ow] ow] o] oo
oo} a} olo}fs}fof=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


46

DEPARTMENT OF ME

Dean:
Prof. Dr. Nadeem Ahmad Mufti

Chairman:
Prof. Dr. Nasir Hayat

Professors:

Prof. Dr. TauseefAized

Prof. Dr. Asad Naeem Shah
Prof. Dr. Asif Mahmood Qureshi
Prof. Dr. Amjad Hussain

Prof. Dr. Ghulam Moeen-ud-Din

Associate Professor
Dr. Ali Hussain Kazim
Dr. MuhammadAsim

iA
ion
fe

Dr. Awais Ahmad Khan

Dr. Muhammad Mahmood Aslam Bhutta
Dr. Muhammad Usman

Dr. Hassan Ali

Assistant Professor

Mr. Azfar Kaleem

Dr. Naseer Ahmad

Mr. Shabbir Hussain

Mr. Muhammad Rashid Sajid
Mr. Muhammad Kashif Tariq
Mr. UmairAshraf Khokhar
Mr. Hafiz Zahid Nabi

Mr. Ahmad Naveed

Mr. Syed Saqib

Dr. Jawad Sarwar

OHM eN el SeicNC

 

Dr. Jamal Umer

Dr. Muhammad Wajid Saleem
Dr. Jafar Hussain

Dr. Hasan Izhar Khan

Lecturers

Dr. Zia-ur-Rehman Tahir

Mrs. Rabbia Sehar

Syed Wasim Hassan Zubair

Mr. Muhammad Waqas Rafique
Dr. Muhammad Zubair Sheikh
Dr. Muhammad Wagar Nasir
Mr. Muhammad Jawad

 

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

The Department of Mechanical Engineering is as old as the institution itself. The programs offered/being planned, are as below:

a) B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering b) B.Sc. Automotive Engineering

c) M.Sc. Mechanical Design Engineering d) M.Sc. Thermal Power Engineering

e) M.Sc. Automotive Engineering f) M.Sc. Renewable Energy Systems Engineering
g) Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering

Mission
To produce mechanical engineers, equipped with knowledge and skills to carry on lifelong learning, through quality teaching and training. Our graduates
shall be able to serve for the sustainable development of the society while demonstrating professional ethics and responsible social conduct.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Apply the knowledge to solve analytical and practical mechanical engineering problems. (Engineering Capabilities)
PEO-02: Work for continuous professional and sustainable socio-technical development.(Societal Development and Lifelong Learning)
PEO-03: Demonstrate professional ethics, effective communication and managerial skills.(Ethics, Management and Communication)

Laboratories and other Facilities
The latest equipment has been inducted in the following labs and students are encouraged to fully utilize the lab facilities.

Thermodynamics Fluid Mechanics & Hydraulic Machines
Mechanics of Machines - _ Engineering Mechanics

Materials Testing -  CAD/FEA

Energy Technologies - Heat Transfer

Refrigeration & Air Conditioning - Thermal Power Systems
Instrumentation & Control + Vibration

Machine Tools & Machining

The Department has several licensed software (Pro- E, Solid Works, AutoCAD, CATIA, Fluent, ANSYS, TRNSYS, Solid Edge, HAP, Ecotect, MATLab
etc.) and students make use of these throughout their studies.

Automotive Engineering Centre

This center has been established to contribute to the automotive engineering field through research and innovation. A wide variety of R&D facilities such
as, engine performance testing, emission testing, automotive noise level measurement, are available at the center to support educational and industrial
requirement.

Mission:
To produce competent engineers who contribute to the society with knowledge, skill and attitude for design, analysis and sustainable development in the
automotive engineering.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs):
PEO-01: Apply the knowledge to solve the complex engineering problems related to automotive engineering.
PEO-02: To meet the technological challenges and diverse needs of the industry and society in various areas of automotive engineering.
PEO-03: Manifest effective communication and managerial skills with ethical, environmental, and global responsibilities.

47

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

tert NSPE —_=8.Sc. Mechanical Engineering

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

HU 111 & HU 111 | Communication Skills 1 1 IS 101 Islamic and Pak Studies-I
LMA 113 Calculus and Analytic Geometry 3 0 ME 122 & Me122 | Engineering Mechanics
PHY 119 Engineering Physics 2 0 LCE 101 & CS 101] Computer Programming for Engineers
CS 101 & CS 101] Computing Fundamentals for Engineers 1 1 LHU 121 & HU 121] Technical Writing
3 1
1 1
3 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LME 111 & ME 111] Thermodynamics-| LMA 225 Differential Equations and Transforms
LME 121 & 121 | Engineering Graphics and Drawing EE 101 Electrical Engineering and Electronics
LME-131 Materials and Manufacturing - ME 100 Workshop Practice

Fad LOT-101__| Translation of Holy Quran
Course Subject Credit Hours

 

 

 

 

 

a} of] nm] wl a] a} wlw
o}| =] of of =] a} a}o

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr Course Subject Credit Hours
IS 201 Islamic and Pakistan Studies -II 3 0 No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
ME 231 & Me231 | Materials and Manufacturing - II (ME 131) 2 1 MGT 410 Engineering Project Management 2 0
LME 251 Computer Aided Drawing 0 1 ME 212 & ME 212 | Thermodynamics-ll (ME 111) 3 1
ILME 221 & ME 221] Mechanics of Materials-| (ME 122) 3 4 LME 213 & ME 213 | Fluid Mechanics-ll (ME 211) 3 4
LME 211 & Me211] Fluid Mechanics-| 3 1 LME 222 & 222 | Mechanics of Materials-ll (ME 221) 5 1
LQT-201 Translation of Holy Quran-I! 1 0 LMA-241 Applied Engineering Statistics 2 0
HU-100 Languages 0 0 MGT 413 & MGT 413L| Engineering Entrepreneurship 1 1
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
ME 321 & ME 321] Mechanics of Machines (ME 122) 3 1 ME 342 & ME 342] Robotics and Automation (ME 341) 2 1
LME 311 & ME 314] Heat and Mass Transfer (ME 213) 3 1 LME 381 & 381 | Engineering Data Analytics & Al 2/4
LME 341 Instrumentation and Control 2 0 LME 323 Machine Design II (ME 222) 2 0
ME 322M __| Machine Design -I (ME 222) 3 9 ME 352 Computer Aided Design-II 0 1
E-351 Computer Aided Design -I 0 1 LME-332 Metrology and Quality Assurance (MA 241) D 0
LME 371 Health Safety & Industrial Environment 2 0 ME 361 Energy Resources and Utilization (MA 311) 2 0
ME-399 Semester Design Project 0 1 ME 351& ME 351 | Computational Engineering-I 2 4
LOT-301 Translation of Holy Quran-lll 1 0 LMGT-316B __ | Professional Ethics in Engineering Practices 2 0
Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr Course Subject Credit Hours
ME 461 & ME 461] IC Engine (ME 212) No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

 

LMGT 160 Engineering Economics
ME 451 & ME 451) Computational Engineering-lI (ME 351)

2
2 ME 463 Power Plants Engineering (ME 212)
2
LME 462 Energy Conservation and Management (ME 361) 2
0
2
1
2

1

0

1 ME-464 Energy & Power Systems

0 LME 411 & ME 411 Refrigeration and Air Conditioning (ME 311)
3 LME 421 Mechanical Vibration (ME 321)
0

0

0

 

 

 

ME 496 FYDP-|
LME 4 Elective-|
QT-401 Translation of Holy Quran-IV

 

MGT 312 Supply Chain Management
ME 497 FYDP- Il (ME 496)
LME 4 -- Elective-II

 

 

RPO] rm]rm]o}r
o}wlololsa}lsto

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

48 ME 471 Production and Operations Management

 

 


Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 aoe

 

 

B.Sc. Automotive Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
HU-111 Communication Skills 1S-101 Islamic & Pakistan Studies-1
LMA-113 Calculus and Analytic Geometry EE-101 & EE-101 | Electrical Engineering & Electronics
PHY-119 & PHY-119] Engineering Physics LME-132 Manufacturing Processes

 

LME-124 & ME-124] Engineering Graphics & Drawin
LME-111 & ME-111] Thermodynamics-|

CE-102 & CE-102 | Computer Programming for Engineers (CS-101)
LME-125 & ME-125} Engineering Mechanics

 

 

 

w] of wo} a} rm] mo] oo
of =} a} a} o}a}o

 

 

 

 

NM] alr] oe] s}rm}olo
oc} of of =] =} a}o}=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LME-131 Industrial Materials LME-100L Workshop Practice

QT-101 Translation of Holy Quran-! MA-129 Vector and Complex Analysis

CS-101 Computing Fundamentals

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours

No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

EE-202 & EE-202 | Automotive Electronics (EE-101) AM-223 Vehicle Dynamics (ME-125)

LIS-201 Islamic & Pakistan Studies-ll (IS 101) MA-242 Engineering Statistics

MA-225 Differential Equations and Transforms ME-212 & ME-212| Thermodynamics-ll (ME-111)

 

AM-211 & AM-211 | Fluid Mechanics
LME-221 & ME-221] Mechanics of Materials-| (ME-125)
LQT-201 Translation of Holy Quran-II (QT-101)

LAM-231 Project Management and Engineering Economics2
ME-222 & ME-222| Mechanics of Materials-II (ME-221)
LHU-221 Technical Writing & Presentation Skills

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

ME-312 & ME-312 | Heat and Mass Transfer (ME-212) AM-326 & AM-326 | Vehicle Structure Design’ ,2 (AM-324)
LME-331 & ME-331] Machine Tools and Machining (ME-331) LAM-325 Design for Manufacturing1 (ME-331)
LIMA-345 & MA-345] Numerical Methods in Computing AM-331 Quality & Reliability Engineering‘ ,2 (MA-242)
LAM-313 Fuels and Combustion (ME-212) AM-315 & AM-315 | Vehicle Air Conditioning (ME-312)

AM-314 Vehicle Tribology (AM-211) LAM-316 & AM-316] Computational Fluid Dynamics (AM-211, AM-324L)
|AM-324 & AM-324L] Design of Machine Elements (ME-222) LQT-301 Translation of Holy Quran-Ill (QT-201)

 

 

 

 

alwlwlwlwlr
ol =|a}olo}]=
w]o]rm]ol}ol rn
olalols}olo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

w]rm]rm}ro}r}o
alolo}s}sa}]=
alr] rwfololr
ofs|slolo}=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
ME-451 & ME-451 | Finite Element Analysis (MA-345) 2 1 AM-423 Vibration & Noise Control (ME-125) 2 0
LME-413 & ME-413} IC Engines (AM-313) 2 1 AM-442 Intelligent vehicle (AM-441) 2 0
LAM-441 & AM-441] Vehicle Instrumentations and Control Systems 3 1 AM-431 Computer Integrated Manufacturing (ME-331,CS 102)} 2 0
(EE-201,MA-242) AM-414 Hybrid Vehicles (ME-413) 2 0
LME-431 Production and Operations Management (AM-231) | 2 0 AM-499 Project II (AM-498L) 0 3
AM-498 Project | 0 3 LME 4- Elective Il 2 0
LME 4-- Elective | 2 0 QT-401 Translation of Holy Quran-lV (QT-301) 1 0

 

 

 


DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRIAL & MANUFACTURING ENGINEERING

 

Dean Associate Professors Dr. Salman Habib
Prof. Dr. Nadeem Ahmad Mufti Dr. Kashif Ishfaq
Lecturers

Chairman Assistant Professors Mrs. Kiran Mughal
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Qaiser Saleem Dr. Rakhshanda Naveed Mrs. Sana Ehsan

Dr. Muhammad Faisal Shahzad Mr. Adeel Shahzad
Professor Dr. SarmadAli Khan Mr. Omer Asghar
Dr. Nadeem Ahmad Mufti Mr. Bilal Arshad
Dr. Muhammad Qaiser Saleem Dr. Syed Farhan Raza Rizvi
Mission

To impart quality industrial and manufacturing engineering knowledge through effective learning process for life-long career and leadership in the industry

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Effective application of knowledge and analytical skills to solve complex engineering problems related to Industrial and Manufacturing
Engineering.
PEO-02: Demonstrate management and communication skills complimenting technical competence.
PEO-03: Ability to use and improve upon contemporary and emerging technologies while focusing lean methodologies.
PEO-04: Demonstrate professional and ethical values and commitment towards continuous improvement.

50

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Genesis
The Department was established in 2006 to cater for the ever competitive needs of industry which demand highly skilled and motivated engineers,
equipped with excellent management & soft skills.

Introduction

In a global marketplace, creating and maintaining competitive advantage is the key to success. Today's industry leaders must satisfy customers’
expectations for high quality products while dealing with the realities of soaring energy prices and increasing international competition. Cross-functional
engineers, equipped with: a solid technical background, comprehension of new equipment and process technologies, a firm grasp of business matters
and aspects of manufacturing policy, strong understanding of productivity improvement techniques and readiness to lead diverse teams, are the future of
world-class manufacturing. Today, almost all major manufacturing and services industries train their newly inducted engineers for the aforementioned
traits. Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering, however, has designed its curricula to give its graduates a head start in this respect by
including courses like Manufacturing Processes, Industrial Materials, Engineering Economics, Communication Skills, Project Management,
Optimization Techniques, Production & Operations Management, Total Quality Management, Entrepreneurship, Social & Ethical Aspects in Engineering,
Finite ElementAnalysis, Maintenance Engineering & Management and Production Tooling Design to name a few.

The Department offers the following programs:
a) Bachelorsin Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering
b) Masters and Ph.D. in:
i. Engineering Management
ii, Manufacturing Engineering
The Department takes pride in the fact that its B.Sc. IME program has been accredited by Pakistan Engineering Council on Level II outcome based
education (OBE) system. To ensure continuous compliance to the requirements of this system, following cells/committees have been formed.

Industrial Advisory Board + OBE Core Committee
Quality Control Cell + Labs Committee
Alumni, Industrial Linkages and Internship Cell - Department Upkeep Committee

Laboratories & Infrastructure
The Department houses following laboratories containing ola related to teaching, research and industrial support.

Precision Machining Laboratory Non-Conventional Processes Laboratory
Measurement and Calibration Laboratory + — Rapid Prototyping Laboratory

Computer Systems Laboratory + CAD/CAM Laboratory

Machine Tools and Production Tooling Laboratory + Metrology and Quality Assurance Laboratory
Work Study and Ergonomics Laboratory + Foundry Shop

Welding Laboratory - Graduate Laboratory

The Department has modern computing facilities (i7 computers) and Wifi along with a well equipped library for facilitation of studies and research.
Additionally, a center named “Foundry Service Center” (FSC) has been established at the premises of the Department with the help of “Small & Medium
Enterprises Development Authority” (SMEDA) and “Pakistan Foundry Association” (PFA) with an aim to bridge the gap between industry and academia.
The Department has also made it mandatory for third year students to successfully complete industrial internship for practical experience of real life. For
this purpose an independent cell called Alumni, Industrial Linkages and Internship Cell is established to facilitate and monitor the internship process. The
Departmentalso offers dynamic student life by providing range of co-curricular activities such as workshops, quizzes, seminars, sport galas etc. These are
primarily arranged by students from the platform of Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering Club (IMEC) under the supervision of Chairman.
51

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

B.Sc. Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
EE-199 & EE-199 | Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering 3 1 IS-101/HU-101 | Islamic & Pak Studies-I/Ethics & Pak Studies-! 3 0
LMA-111 Applied Mathematics-I 3 0 MA-1121 Applied Mathematics-II ( MA-111) 3 0
IME-111 & IME-111L } Industrial Materials 2 1 ME-121 & IME-121 | Manufacturing Processes-l ( IME-111 & IME-111L, 3 1
CY-181 & CY-181 | Industrial Chemistry-| 2; 1 ME-100L) 2
LME-100L Workshop practice 0 1 LIME-161 & IME-161} Engineering Drawing and Graphics 1
IME-131 & IME-131L] Engineering Mechanics 3 1 LCS-101 & CS-101 | Computing Fundamentals 2 1
LHU-111 Communication Skill 0 1
LHU-003 International Language 1 0
QT-101 Translation of Holy Quran-! 1 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
EE-215&EE-215 | Basic Industrial Electronics (EE-199 & EE-199L) 2, 1 IS-201/HU-201 | Islamic and Pak Studies-II/Ethics & Pak Studies-ll } 3 0
LIME-232 & IME-232| Mechanics of Materials (IME-131 & IME-131L) 3 1 MA-244 & MA-244 | Probability and Statistics 2 4
LIME-241 & IME-241] Thermo-Fluids 3 1 LIME-222 & IME-222) Manufacturing Processes-Il (IME-121 & IME 121L)] 3 1
LIME-251 Social and Ethical Aspects in Engineering 2 0 LIME-262 & IME-262) Machine Design and CAD (IME-161 & IME-161L 3 1
IME-252 Industrial Safety and Environment 2 0 IME-232 & IME-232L)
IME-233 & IME-233L] Mechanics of Machines 2 1 LHU-221 Technical writing and presentation skills 3 0

 

 

 

QT-201 Translation of Holy Quran-ll 1 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr Course Subject Credit Hours
IME-363 & IME-363 | Instrumentation and Control (MA-112, EE-215 & 3 1 No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
EE-215L) IME-354 Production Planning & Control 3 0
LMA-345 & MA-345 | Numerical Methods in Computing (MA-111, 3 1 IME-364 & IME-364L] CAD/CAM(IME-222 & IME-222L, IME-262 & IME-262L)} 2 1
CS-101 & CS-101L) IME-381 & IME-381L] Metrology and Quality Control (MA-244 & MA-244L) 3 1
LCS-384 & CS-384 | Introduction to Data Sciences 2 1 IME-372 & IME-372L] Optimization Techniques 2 1
LIME-353 & IME-353] Human Factor Engineering 3 1 MGT-317 Project Management in Engineering 3 0
LIME-371 Engineering Economics 2 0 QT-301 Translation of Holy Quran-III 1 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
IME-XXX Elective-I 3 1 IME-XXX Elective-IIl 3 1
IME-465 & IME-465 | Production Tooling Design (IME 262 & 262L) 3 1 IME-XXX | Elective-lV 3 0
LMCT-434 & MCT-434) Industrial Automation 2, 1 IME-455 Production and Operations Management 3 0
LIME-XXX Elective-II 3 0 IME-456 Total Quality Management 3 0
IME-401L Project-| 0 3 IME-402 Project-ll (IME-401L) 0 3
1 0

 

 

 

 

 

52 LQT-401 Translation of Holy Quran-lV

 

 


73

MECHATRONICS & CONTROL ENGINEERING
ee |

 

Dr. Mohsin Rizwan

Prof. Dr. Nadeem Ahmad Mufti Dr. Muhammad Ahsan Ms. Amina Younas
Dr. Syed Abbas Zulqurnain Naqvi Mr. Muhammad Rzi Abbas
Dr. Sajid Iqbal Mr. Misbah-ur-Rehman

Dr. Ali Raza Dr. Maria Shakeel Mr. Syed Ahsan Masud Zaidi
Ms. Aisha Shoaib Ms. Qurat ul Ain Masud

Mr. M. Ahsan Naeem
Dr. UmmulBaneen

This program is accredited by Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) under Washington Accord (W.A). Mechatronics is the synergistic combination of
mechanical engineering, electronics, control engineering and computer science. It is essential in the design of intelligent products; it allows engineers to
transform their concepts into reality. Currently, the use of intelligent products with improved flexibility, performance, reliability and maintainability is crucial
for the economic vitality of any country. Thus, mechatronics engineering carries the potential to make major impacts upon various industries such as
automotive, consumer electronics, biomedical and robotics/automation. At the same time, mechatronics is becoming popular at universities from the
viewpoint of research as well. Research areas, relevant to mechatronics, are diverse and include robotics, actorics/sensorics, Micro Electro Mechanical
Systems (MEMS), mechatronic devices/machines, control of mechatronic systems, human-machine- interface/haptics, embedded computing and
software engineering as well as design/integration methodologies for mechatronic systems.

Initially, mechatronics was offered as a postgraduate degree program at UET Lahore in 1999. Keeping in view of the futuristic needs as well as the market 53

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 —— MECHATRONICS DEPARTMENT

demand, the undergraduate program was initiated in 2001. The programs were run by the department Mechanical Engineering, and after maturation, by
independently constituted department of Mechatronics & Control Engineering (DMCE) from 2005. Present undergraduate enrollment is around 342
students. The undergraduate program is designed to address the needs of technology-based-industries. It provides in-depth knowledge in the
fundamentals, design, development, analysis and operation of mechatronic systems. The objective of the program is to provide a course of study which
enables the students to effectively design integrated systems. The prime role of mechatronics is one of initiation and integration throughout the design
process, with mechatronics engineer as the team leader.Up until 2020Seventeen batches are serving the industry. Our graduates are serving in
mechanical, electronic, instrumentation, automation, oil and gas, aviation and other sectors.

Mission
The department, through quality education and enabling environment, aims to foster professional engineers capable of designing complex Mechatronic
systems, serving current industrial needs and deve

Programs of Study

The following programs of study are offered:
a) B.Sc. Mechatronics & Control Engineering
b) M.Sc. Mechatronics Engineering
c) Ph.D. Mechatronics Engineering

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
To nurture Mechatronics engineer who:
PEO-01: Can Skilfullydesign and implement integrated solutions to general Mechatronics engineering problems.
PEO-02: is capable of developing professional skills, while adhering to high ethical values, to excel in industry, research organizations and
succeed in entrepreneurial ventures.
PEO-03: Can innovate and embark on new directions in advancing the Mechatronics technologies which have direct national and international
relevance.

Laboratories and other facilities
To supplement theoretical studies with practical work, department is well equipped with resources in the form of following laboratories:

Al & Robotics + — Hydraulics and Pneumatics

Instrumentation & Control + — Simulation

Digital Systems + Mechnics

Power Electronics + — Industrial Automation

Embedded Systems + Computer
Department also shares some of the laboratoriess and other resources with Mechanical, Industrial & Manufacturing and Electrical Engineering
Departments.
Library

The department has a well-stocked library with a large number of books and journals on mechatronics system design, robotics, industrial automation,
artificial intelligence, machine vision, biomedical engineering, digital signal processing, control system, electronics, instrumentation and measurements,
microprocessor and microcontroller CAD/CAM, engineering mechanics, engineering drawing and graphics, communication systems.

 

100 Years of Ex


 

www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Industrial Training

Refresher courses in various fields of mechatronics engineering are offered to the industry and practicing professionals. Lectures and seminars on
different technical aspects are arranged by local and foreign experts. The department also renders advisory services to a large number of organizations in
the field of Automation, Hydraulics and Pneumatics, and Embedded Systems.

Student Advisory Services
Department has deputed faculty members as tutors so that students may seek guidance regarding different aspects of students life in the university.
Queries regarding curricular and co-curricular activities can be discussed with the allocated tutor.

Mechatronics Club

The department has launched a Mechatronics Club to promote design and development activities in the area. In normal routine, students of higher
classes use advanced equipment but this club provides opportunity for juniors to mingle with seniors and learn skills right from the start. Club in-
charge delivers lectures, designates projects and provides guidance in programming computer interfacing, microcontrollers, etc.

Research
The department provides liberal facilities for research to the final year undergraduate students, postgraduate students and to the faculty members.
Current research areas are:

Al & Robotics
The current research focus of this area include: Artificial intelligence, Machine Learning, Biological Computation, Evolutionary, Cellular and Neural
Computation, Complex Adaptive Systems, Sensory Systems and behavior evolution, Language evolution, Mimetic evolution.

Human Centered Robotics Laboratory of NCRA

Human-Centered Robotics Laboratory of our department is part of newly established National Center of Robotics and Automation. The lab aims to
indigenously design and develop integrated robotic systems, based on smart sensing and actuation, to seamlessly interact with humans, actively learn
from them and eventually create an effective collaborative environment. A dedicated team of Mechatronics Engineers is currently working on the
indigenous development of collaborative robots, industrial exo-skeletons and active prostheses.

Industrial Automation
Research in this area involves conventional as well as modern approaches for plant automaton; starting from use of PLC, Open architecture solutions,
embedded solutions, SCADA, DCS and PLCs.

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

B.Sc. Mechatronics & Control Engineering

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

MA-113 Calculus and Analytic Geometry

MCT-111 Engineering Graphics and Drawing

MCT-121 Electric Circuits

1S-101/HU-101} Islamic and Pak Studies —I/Ethics and Pak Studies - |
PHY-118 Applied Physics
ME-100L | Workshop Practice
MA-225 Differential Equations and Transforms
MCT-115 Engineering Statics

MCT-113 Manufacturing Processes

MCT-122 Electronic Devices and Circuits
MCT-114 Fundamentals of Thermal Sciences
HU-111 Communication Skills

QT-101 Translation of the Holy Quran-I

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

MA-129 | Vector and Complex Analysis MA-234 Linear Algebra

MCT-211 | Engineering Dynamics (MCT-115) MCT-222 | Embedded Systems (MCT-241, MCT-122, MCT-242)
MCT-242 | Computer Programming | MCT-213 | Mechanisms

MCT-223 | Electrical Machinery (MCT-121) MCT-215 | Mechanics of Materials

MCT-241 | Digital Logic Design MCT-243 | Computer Programming II (MCT-242)

QT-201 Translation of the Holy Quran - II IS-201/HU-201} Islamic and Pak Studies -II/ Ethics and Pak Studies -Il

 

 

 

 

 

SO] Ny] we] w] =] oo
a}lalolsa][rlo

 

ALol rm] w]e] ro
o}=]a]a}/s}olo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of=|alr}alo

alolrm}[s}olo
wlo]rm]rm}oloa
ofm|ala}ato

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
MA-240. Numerical Analysis (MCT-242) 2 1 MA-244 Probability and Statistics 2 1
MCT-331 | Modeling and Simulation (MA-225) 3 1 MCT-333 | Control Systems — | (MCT-331) 3 1
MCT-335 | Instrumentation and Measurements (MCT-122) 2 1 MCT-334 | Industrial Automation 2 1
MCT311 Design of Machine Elements and CAD/CAM (MCT-215) | 3 1 MCT-351 | Robotics (MA-234) 3 1
MCT-313 | Hydraulics and Pneumatics 3 1 MCT-302 _} Product Design 2 1
QT-301 Translation of the Holy Quran-Ill 1 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Sue : -
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr Course Subject Credit Hours
5 No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
MGT-211 | Principles of Management

 

 

MCT-404 _ | Professional Ethics

HU-221 Technical Writing & Presentation Skills
MCT-4xx | Elective Il

MCT-4xx | Elective Ill

MCT-499 | Final Project- Il (MCT-498)

QT-401 Translation of the Holy Quran - IV

 

MCT-431 | Control Systems — II (MCT-333)
MGT-413 | Entrepreneurship

MCT-4xx | Elective |

MCT-402 | Signals and Systems (MA-225)
MCT-498 | Final Project- | (MCT-302)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SO} NV] Vy] we] rm] o
w]alalo|alo

 

 

 

 

S}olm] rm] ofr
ol] wl alalolo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Pa Lae}

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
MCT-405 _| Introduction to Bio Medical Engineering (MCT-332) 2 1
MCT-415 | Mechanical Vibrations 2 1
MCT-412 | Condition Monitoring 2 1
MCT-421 | Digital Signal Processing (MCT-402) 2, 1
MCT-422 | Power Electronics (MCT-122) 2 1
MCT-432 _ | Digital Control Systems (MCT-333) 2, 1
MCT-433 | Estimation and Filtering (MCT-333) 2 1
MCT-452 | Intelligent Systems (MCT-242) 2 1
MCT-453 | Machine Vision (MCT-243) 2 1
MCT-454 | Mobile Robotics (MCT-351) 2: 1
MCT-491 Special Topics in Mechatronics 9 1

 

 

 

www.uet.edu.pk

 

 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
  

 

 


a leUliAVAO)i
Civil Engineering




MT MAWAC ses)

 

Dean
Prof. Dr. Habib-ur-Rehman

Chairman
Prof. Dr. Khalid Farooq

Professors

Prof. Dr. Muhammad Ashiq

Prof. Dr. Noor Muhammad Khan
Prof. Dr. Asad Ullah Qazi

Prof. Dr. Asif Hameed

Prof. Dr. Muhammad Burhan Sharif
Prof. Dr. Rashid Hameed

Associate Professors
Dr. Riaz Ahmad Goraya

ti

Dr. Hassan Mujtaba Shahzad
Dr. Safeer Abbas

Dr. Qasim Shaukat Khan

Dr. Ali Anmed

Dr. Nauman Khurram

Dr. Jehanzeb Israr

Dr. Muhammad Irfan-ul-Hassan
Dr. Waseem Abbas

Assistant Professors
Dr. Imtiaz Rashid

Dr. Muhammad Yousaf
Dr. Usman Akmal

Mr. Ehtesham Mehmood
Mr. Usman Ali

Dr. Syed Asad Ali Gillani

DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING

Dr. Umbreen us Sahar

Dr. Mazhar Saleem

Dr. Rizwan Azam

Dr. Muhammad Rizwan Riaz
Dr. Aqsa Shabbir

Lecturers

Ms. Vaiza Shiraz

Mr. Muhammad Rehan Ashraf
Mr. Ubaid Ahmad Mughal

Ms. Fatima Mehmood

Ms. Aamina Rajput

Mr. Bilal Anmad Khokar

Mr. Akbar Tufail

Mr. Abdul Rehman

 


 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 sone

The Department of Civil Engineering at UET Lahore is one of the oldest departments in the country imparting civil engineering courses at undergraduate
and postgraduate levels. The Department was established in 1939 as a part of the Maclagan Engineering College, Lahore. Currently, it has an enrollment
of over 1000 students in bachelor, Master and Ph.D. The number of PhD. faculty members serving in the departmentis maximum comparable to any other
Civil Engineering program offered in the country. Civil engineering discipline deals with the planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of
the physical and naturally built environment, including works such as buildings, bridges, flyovers, under passes, roads, railway tracks, airports, docks &
harbors, factories, dams, barrages, canals, water supply schemes and sewerage systems, etc. Civil engineering is the broadest discipline focusing on
various challenging engineering problems and involves multidimensional specialties.

Acivil engineering graduate of UET Lahore has sufficient opportunities of getting jobs in various government/private departments i.e., Communication &
Works (C & W), Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), Punjab Irrigation Department (PID), Civil Aviation Authority, Pakistan Railways,
National Highway Authority (NHA), Lahore Development Authority (LDA), Water and Sanitation Agency (WASA), Public Health Engineering Department
(PHED), National Engineering Services Pakistan (NESPAK), Associated Consultant Engineers (ACE), National Development Consultants (NDC), SKB
Engineering & Construction, Descon Engineering Limited, Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) and many more. Due to the active participation by the
students and faculty of this department, UET has been declared as American Concrete Institute outstanding University for the year 2014 and 2015.

Dr. Mubashir Hassan (Ex. Federal Finance Minister). Dr. Ahmad Jan Durrani (Ex. Vice Chancellor LUMS), Dr. Shamsul Malik (Ex. Chairman WAPDA), Dr.
Tahir Masood, Dr. Shamim A. Sheikh, Dr. Mehreen Faroogi, Dr. Adil Najam and Prof. Dr. Hanif Chaudhry are some of the famous alumni of the Civil
Engineering Department.

Mission
To impart high quality Civil Engineering education through modern teaching and research for the national and international socio-economic development.

Outcome Based Education System
Civil Engineering program has opted and accredited for Outcome Based Education (OBE) system since session-2012.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01. Graduates demonstrate their proficiency of applying the knowledge & skills to solve complex civil engineering problems.
PEO-02. Graduates communicate effectively and contribute in the project team.
PEO-03. Graduates uphold principles of ethics and integrity throughout their professional practices
PEO-04. Graduates engage themselves in continuous professional learning process.

The Department has the following divisions to conductits teaching and research programs:
1. Structural Engineering
2. Geotechnical Engineering
3. Hydraulics and Irrigation Engineering

The Department offers B.Sc. Civil Engineering program at undergraduate level. In addition, following postgraduate level programs are also being
offered:
a) M.Sc. Hydraulics and Irrigation Engineering
b) M.Sc. Geotechnical Engineering
) M.Sc. Structural Engineering
) Ph.D. Civil Engineering

ao

 

100 Years of Exc


Spi eer Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

Laboratories and Other Facilities
The Department has the following well-equipped laboratories, which meet the academic needs of students and teachers as well as the professional
demands of the government and private organizations:

Concrete Laboratories + Computer Center

Earthquake Engineering Laboratories + — Engineering Mechanics Laboratory
Geotechnical-Foundation Engineering Laboratory + — Hydraulics & Irrigation Engineering Laboratory
Strength of Materials Laboratory + — Surveying & Levelling laboratory

Test Floor Laboratory + Transportation Engineering Laboratory

Civil Engineering graduates are eligible to get membership form Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) which has become the full signatory of prestigious
Washington Accord (WA). This would facilitate mobility of engineering graduates and professionals of Pakistan at international levels as undergraduate
degree program of civil engineering is well recognized in all Washington Accord countries. The graduates from PEC accredited engineering programs will
be accepted for education and employment purposes in other member countries of Washington Accord.

 

 

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

B.Sc. Civil Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
CE-103 Construction Materials 2 1 CE-101 Elementary Surveying 3 1
CE-105 Civil Engineering Drawing 4 2 CE-102 Computer Programming 2 1
Phy-122 | Basic Mechanics 2 1 HU-101 Communication Skills 0 1
MA-111 Applied Mathematics-| 3 0 IS/Hu-101 | Islamic & Pak Studies/ Ethics 3 0
EE-198 Basic Electrical Technology 4 1 MA-112 Applied Mathematics-II 3 0
MinE-170 | Basic Engineering Geology 2 0 ME-119 Basic Mechanical Technology 1 0
QT-101 Translation of the Holy Quran 1 0 ME-100L | Workshop Practice 0 I

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
CE-201 Surveying and GIS-RS Applications 3 1 CE-205 Civil Engineering Construction & Graphics 2 1
CE-212 Mechanics of Materials 3 1 CE-207 Engineering Economy and Construction Management |_ 3 1
CE-231 Fluid Mechanics-| 3 1 CE-211 Elementary Structural Analysis 3 0
IS/HU-201_ | Islamic & Pak Studies/Ethics 3 0 CE-221 Geotechnical Engineering-| 3 1
MA-240 Numerical Analysis 2 1 ATP-201 Introduction to Architecture and Town Planning 2 0
QT-201 Tranlsation of the Holy Quran 4 0

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
Mgt-317 Project Management in Engineering 2 0 CE-312 Structural Mechanics 3 1
CE-311 Structural Analysis 2, 0 CE-314 Plain & Reinforced Concrete-I 3 1
CE-313 Steel Structures 3 1 CE-331 Fluid Mechanics-I| 3 1
CE-321 Geotechnical Engineering-II 3 1 CE-305 Hazards and Disaster Management 2 0
CE-332 Hydrology and Water Resources Management 2 1 MA-356 Probability and Statistics in Engineering 2 0
HU-300 Technical Report Writing 0 1 Mgt-319 Entrepreneurship for Engineers 1 0
QT-301 Translation of the Holy Quran 1 0 CE-306 Professional Ethics 4 0

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
CE-412 | Structural Engineering 3 1 CE-431 Irrigation Engineering 3 1
CE-411 Plain & Reinforced Concrete-l| 3 1 CE-413 Design of Structures 2 1
CE-421 Transportation Engineering 3 1 CE-423 Pavement & Foundation Engineering 3 0
CE-434 Hydraulic Engineering 3 1 ENE-440 | Environmental Engineering 3 4
CE-499 Project 0 3 QT-401 Translation of the Holy Quran 4 0
CE-499 Project 0 3

 

 

 

 


 

Dr. Nasir Javed
Prof. Dr. Habib Ur Rehman Dr. Khuram Rashid Ms. Arjmand Khaliq

Ms. Anam Fatima

Ms. Alina Mahmood

Prof. Dr. Sajjad Mubin Mr. ImranAhmad Saeed Mr. H. Abrar Ahmad
Dr. Maria Idrees Mr. Abdul Mueed Iqbal
Ms. Huda Riaz
Dr. Sabahat Arif Ms. Afia Razzaq
Ms. Tehreem Naseer Ms. Khadija Mawra

The Department of Architectural Engineering and Design was established first time in Pakistan at University of Engineering and Technology Lahore in the
year 2001. The department is offering 4-years B.Sc. Architectural Engineering, M.Sc. Building Engineering, M.Sc. Integrated Building Design, M.Sc.
Construction Management and PhD in Architectural Engineering. The Architectural Engineering program is a blend of Architecture and Engineering, the
emphasis of this Program is to give quality education to the students and prepare them for the building industry of Pakistan as successful professionals
with innovative and multi-disciplinary approach. The department has enrollment of average 50 students per batch in undergraduate program. The
Graduates of Architectural Engineering program are working in various national/international organizations and enjoying good repute. The demand of
Architectural Engineers has increased rapidly during last few years resulting 100% absorption of graduates in private and public-sector organizations and
upgradation of admission merit. The most prominent areas of curriculum include Building Structures, HVAC system of Buildings, Electrical System of
Buildings (Lighting and Illumination), Water Supply and Sanitation System of Buildings, Building Construction, Energy Efficient Buildings, Integrated
64 Building Design, Green Buildings, Project Management, Fire Safety, Acoustics of Buildings, Materials of Construction, and Conservation of Historical

100 Years of Excellence


 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 Sone

Buildings. Students have choice to select the field of their interest by studying elective course in 8th semester and final year project in the same area. This
conforms with the offering of specialized field in Architectural Engineering Program at various international universities. The department has adopted
Outcome Based Education (OBE) system since 2015.

The department has faculty from various disciplines including Architectural Engineering, Civil Engineering, Architecture, Electrical Engineering,
Mechanical Engineering and Environmental Engineering. The department has a dedicated library, three Digital Studios and six laboratories including
Structural Engineering Laboratory, Construction Laboratory, Geo-Technical Engineering Laboratory, Survey Laboratory, Environmental Control Systems
Laboratory and Electrical Laboratory.

Mission
To give quality education in architectural engineering with innovative and multi-disciplinary approach for sustainable solutions to meet the requirements of
building industry and societal benefits.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Have ability to propose reasonably acceptable, sustainable and innovative solutions of routine projects and complex architectural
engineering problems.
PEO-02: Have attained position of leadership of a small section/ team and enjoying good repute in terms of communication skills and
professional ethics.
PEO-03: Continue to improve serviceable skills related to the profession through continuing education (higher education, participation in training
courses, workshops, conferences, CPD courses, seminars)

 

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

vert B.Sc Avchitecural Engineering

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

AE 101 Surveying HU 101 Communication Skills

CS 101 Introduction to Coputing LAE 102 _ | Profession of Architectural Engineering

IS 101 Islamic and Pak Studies-| AE-132 | Mechanics of Materials-|

MA 115 Engineering Mathematics PHY 102 | Physics for Architectural Engineers

AE 111 Building Materials & Construction-I ME-100. Workshop Practice

AE 141 Architectural & Engineering Drawing WLAE 113 | Building Materials & Construction-II

AE 142 Computer Aided Drawing

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

IS 201 Islamic And Pak Studies-I| MA 217 Mechanics and Statistics

MA 228 Differential Equation AE 223 Fluid Mechanics

AE 212 Building Materials & Construction-III AE 213 _ | History of Building Technology
AE 233 Elementary Structural Analysis AE 234 Mechanics of Materials-II

AE 241 Architectural Design-| AE 242L | Architectural Design-!I

AE 220 Environmental Control Systems

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OlN]wolofrm |r
wlalolo/=]=

 

Aalr}olrm]e]sfo
a}a}a}a}sa]ofa

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ofwelsa}[r}o
wlalatalo

 

RJolw][ rola
alrm|alalolo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
AE 326 Water Supply & Sanitation System for Buildings 2 1 HU 200 Technical Report Writing 3 0
AE 327 Electrical Systems for Buildings 2, 1 AE 328 Mechanical Systems for Buildings 2 1
AE 333 Design of Concrete Structures-I 3 1 AE 329 Lighting & Illumination 2 4
AE 342 Architectural Design-II 0 2 AE 334 Design of Concrete Structures -II 3 1
LAE 363 | Geotechnical Engineering 2 1 AE 364 Foundation Engineering 3 1
CSE 311 Numerical Analysis 1 1 AE 351 Estimation & Quantity Surveying 2 1
|__ Semester? vers
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr

 

AE 435 Computer Aided Structural Analysis
AE 436 Design of Steel Structures

AE 441 Integrated Building Design-!

LAE 453 —_| Construction Management

AE 473L __ | Project

AE 437 Structural Dynamics & EQ Engineering
AE 442 Integrated Building Design-II

Mgt-419 Entrepreneurship for Engineers

AE 454 Professional Ethics

AE-4xx Elective

AE 474L | Project

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SO] w]o] wo
wl] afr] s]—

 

 

 

 

Oo} Ny] ry] =] elo
wlololo]rm|—=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electi Course No. Subject (Pre-requisites) AE 443 _| Building Rehabilitation
Siete AE 433 | Design of High Rise Buildings AE 414_| Sustainable Building Materials
66 AE 455 Procurement Management AE 403 Research Methodology

100 Yea

 

 

 


ree | ees

4 wwWw.uet.edu. pk

   
       

 

= |
S ipbhe ig deratad abl dle
Sit a

 

— -— a

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT

Dean Associate Professors Dr. Saadia Tabassum
Prof. Dr. Habib-ur-Rehman Dr. Zia-ur-Rehman Dr. Abdur Rahim
Bilal Zia Malik
Chairman Assistant Professors Mujasim Ali Rizvi
Prof. Dr. Ammad Hassan Khan Hina Saleemi Dr. Izza Anwar
Dr. Amna Chaudhry

The Department of Transportation Engineering and Management (DTEM) was established under the Faculty of Civil Engineering. The Department has
distinction of being the first department in the nation to offer a formal B.Sc. Degree course in Transportation Engineering. The aim of establishment of this
Department was to improve the existing transportation infrastructure and to develop human resource in professionals capable of planning, designing,
constructing, managing, operating, and maintaining of various modes of transportations such as highways, railways, airways, seaways, and pipeways.
Fourteen sessions 2002-2015 of the DTEM have already been graduated.

Mission
Our mission is to produce high quality graduates in the field of Transportation Engineering, carry out research at national and international level,
inculcating professionalism in our graduates, and provide advisory services at national level.

Program Educational Objectives
PEO-01: Solve complex problems related to Transportation Engineering
PEO-02: Apply concept of economy, environmental friendliness and sustainability in the practices of Transportation Engineering.

100 Years of Excellence


Spi eer Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

The Department of Transportation Engineering and Management (DTEM) was established under the Faculty of Civil Engineering. The Department has
distinction of being the first department in the nation to offer a formal B.Sc. Degree course in Transportation Engineering. The aim of establishment of this
Department was to improve the existing transportation infrastructure and to develop human resource in professionals capable of planning, designing,
constructing, managing, operating, and maintaining of various modes of transportations such as highways, railways, airways, seaways, and pipeways.
Fourteen sessions 2002-2015 of the DTEM have already been graduated.

Mission
Our mission is to produce high quality graduates in the field of Transportation Engineering, carry out research at national and international level,
inculcating professionalism in our graduates, and provide advisory services at national level.

Program Educational Objectives
PEO-01: Solve complex problems related to Transportation Engineering
PEO-02: Apply concept of economy, environmental friendliness and sustainability in the practices of Transportation Engineering.
PEO-03: Become sound professionals capable of working with integrity and commitment with due consideration to ethical norms of society,
PEO-04: Provide services to society and engineering community or to uphold entrepreneurship through communication skills at national and
international level.

Courses of Study
The Department offers the following courses of studies:
a) B.Sc. Transportation Engineering

b) M.Sc. Transportation Engineering
c) M.Sc. Transportation Informatics
d) Ph.D. Transportation Engineering

The emphasis of bachelor's degree course is on the understanding of the fundamental concepts and principles that constitute the basis of transportation
engineering. The course consists of lectures, design/practical work, laboratory/field investigations, presentations and final year research project. Field
survey campis also a part of the B.Sc. degree program. The general areas include: Mathematics, Technical Drawing, Computer Programming, Probability
and Statistics, Basic Civil and Environmental Engineering.

Laboratories and Other Facilities

The Department has various dedicated laboratories that include Geo-materials, Transportation Materials Improvement, Transportation Computer Aided
Design, Asphalt and Concrete Mix Design, Traffic Engineering and is in a process of establishing Railway Engineering, and Geomatics Engineering Labs.
The Department is using latest state-of-the-art software and tools for teaching and training purposes. The Department has a well-stocked library with a
large number of latest relevant books, journals and research publications.

Transportation engineering graduates of this program have sufficient opportunities of getting jobs in various government/private departments including
(but not limited to), Lahore Development Authority (LDA), Traffic Engineering & Transport Planning Agency (TEPA) under Lahore Development Authority
(LDA), Punjab Mass Transit Authority (PMA), Urban Unit, National Engineering Services Pakistan (NESPAK), Associated Consultant Engineers (ACE),
National Development Consultants (NDC), SKB Engineering & Construction, Frontier Welfare Organization (FWO), National Logistics Cell (NLC),
National Highway Authority (NHA) , Multan DevelopmentAuthority (MDA) and many more.

 

100 Years of Exc


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

B.Sc. Transportation Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
MA-114 Applied Mathematics | 3 0 MA-112 | Applied Mathematics II 3 0
CE-107 Technical Drawing 2 2 CS-101 Computing Fundamentals 2 1
TE-141 Introduction To Transportation Engineering 3 0 CE-101 | Elementary Surveying 3 1
EE-199 Applied Electricity 3 1 PHY -122 | Basic Mechanics 2 1
1S-104 Islamic & Pak Studies - | 3 0 TE-101 | Social Science 3 0
HU-111 Communication Skills 0 1
LME-100 | Workshop Practice 0 4
LQT-101 Translation of Holy Quran 1 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
TE-242 | Construction Materials and Machinery 2 1 TE-211 | Transportation Engineering Practice 2, 1
CE-203 | Fluid Mechanics 3 1 TE-244 | Geotechnical Engineering-| 3 4
AIS - 201 | Islamic & Pak Studies-Il 3 0 CE-213 | Structural Analysis 3 0
CE-212 | Mechanics of Materials 3 1 MA-244 | Probability and Statistics 2 1
CE - 201 Surveying and GIS-RS Application 3 1 HU-221 | Technical Writing and Presentation Skills 3 0
QT-201 Translation of Holy Quran 1 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
TE-243 | Automotive Engineering 2 1 TE-302 Organizational Behavior 3 0
CE-332 | Engineering Hydrology 2 1 TE-352 | Traffic Engineering-I 2 1
TE - 351 Geotechnical Engineering II 3 1 CE-314 | PlainAnd Reinforced Concrete 3 1
TE - 361 Highway Engineering 3 1 ATE - 353 | Bridge Engineering 2 1
Geo - E - 350 | Engineering Geology 3 1 TE - 354 Railway Engineering 2 1
QT-301 Translation of Holy Quran 4 0
Ka
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
TE-461 | Pavement Design And Construction 2 1 TE-465 | Airport Engineering 3 0
ENE - 407 _| Environmental Impact Assessment And Management 3 0 TE-466 | Geomatics Engineering And Transportation 3 1
TE-462 | Harbour And Dock Engineering 2 0 TE-467 | Asset Management 3 1
TE-463 | Transportation Planning And Economics 3 0 TE-468 | Traffic Engineering-Il 2 0
TE-464 | Tunnel Engineering 2 0 TE-469 | Pipeway Engineering 2 1
TE - 481 Project 0 3 QT-401 Construction Management 4 0
TE-482 | Translation of Holy QuranProject 0 3

 

 

 

 

69

 

 


il iateys EO sare ENGINEERING & isd tat
UDR TOEC ELT aaa ts)

 

 

Prof. Dr. Habib Ur Rehman Dr. Amir Ikhlaq Ms. Gul -E- Hina

Dr. Muhammad Umar Farooq Ms. SaharAurangzeb
Mr. Tanveer Ahmed

Assistant Professors Ms. Qurat-ul-Ain

Dr. Mehwish Anis Mr. Haroon Rashid

Dr. Muhammad Irfan Jalees

Dr. Ghulam Hussain

Prof. Dr. Sajjad H. Sheikh

duct

The Institute was established in 1972 with the assistance of World Health Organization (WHO). It is the premier educational institute that train
professionals in the field of Environmental Engineering. The areas include water supply, sewerage, water and wastewater treatment, solid waste
management, air pollution control and environmental studies. Until 2004, its role remained as a post-graduate institute. However, to meet the increasing
demand of professionals in the field of environmental engineering, B.Sc. Environmental Engineering degree was initiated in year 2005. Itis also one of the
oldest and most reliable Institute that provides commercial testing services of water, wastewater and air. The Institute remained instrumental in framing
National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS) and National Standards for Drinking Water Quality (NSDWQ). In year 2017, it has switched to
Outcome Based Education (OBE) system. Batches from 2013 and onwards are accredited by Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) on OBE. B.Sc. degree
is now recognized by 18 members of Washington Accord including USA, UK, Australia, Canada, Japan, China, and others.

70 To produce graduates capable to solve complex engineering problems related to environmental engineering, provide innovative and sustainable solutions

100 Years of Excellence


 

z Dae

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 sone

for water supply, sewerage, water and wastewater treatment, solid waste management & air pollution problems, and devise appropriate solutions for the
above utility services.

Courses Offered

The following courses of study are offered at different levels
a) B.Sc. in Environmental Engineering b) M.Sc. in Environmental Engineering
c) M.-Phil.in Environmental Science d) Ph.D. in Environmental Engineering

Laboratories & Other facilities
The Institute has laboratory facilities in the following areas:
e Water and Wastewater Analysis e Unit processes
e = Air Pollution Monitoring Environmental Microbiology
e Heavy Metal Analysis e Pesticides, insecticides, and organic compounds analysis

In addition, the institute is also equipped with modern computer laboratory having high speed internet facility and one library. All classrooms are air
conditioned and equipmentwith essential audio-visual aids.

Research & Investigation
High quality research is conducted in the following areas:

e Water pollution analysis & control e Water supply and sanitation
e Water and air quality modeling e Air pollution analysis and control
e Water treatment e Wastewater treatment

e Climate change
Research is problem based and conducted through M.Sc. and Ph.D. students. Research work is published in high quality international journals and
is widely cited throughout the world.

Careers in Environmental Engineering

The graduates of IEER have very encouraging employment rate. They are serving within and outside the country. The employers of IEER graduates within
the country include Water and Sanitation Authority (WASA), Water and Power Distribution Authority (WAPDA), Lahore Waste Management Company
(LWMC), The Urban Unit, Punjab, Environmental Protection Department (EPD), WWF Pakistan, NESPAK, Mott McDonalds Pakistan (MMP), National
Development Consultants (NDC) and several other national consulting firms. The graduates of IEER have also been serving in international firms
including Saud Consult, Saudi Arabia, Parsons International Limited, UAE etc.

B.Sc. Environmental Engineering Program
Since its inception in 2005, the B.Sc. Environmental Engineering degree program was accredited by PEC.Recently it switched to Outcome Based
Education (OBE) system.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
Program educational objectives (PEOs) of undergraduate program are listed as under:
PEO-01: Graduates will be designing and developing sustainable solutions, providing stewardship for the challenging environmental problems in
national and international organizations.
PEO-02: Graduates will pursue their professional careers through continual improvement in technical, managerial and communication skills.
PEO-03: Graduates will spearhead the environmental projects observing ethical and professional values while fulfilling the diverse needs of the
society.

100 Years of Exc

“1

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

Year 1 B.Sc. Environmental Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
HU-111L Communication Skills 1 CS-101 Computing Fundamentals 2
IS-101 | & P Studies/ E& P Studies-I 3 CS-101L Computing Fundamentals 1
CE-101 Elementary Surveying 3 EnE-102 Environmental Chemistry 3
CE-101L Elementary Surveying 4 EnE-102L Environmental Chemistry 1
EnE-101 Introduction to Environmental Engineering 2 ME-100L Workshop Practice 1
PHY-112 | Applied Physics 2 MA-116 Linear Algebra & Differential Equations 3
PHY-112L | Applied Physics 1 PHY-122 Basic Mechanics 2
MA-115, Engineering Mathematics 3 PHY-122L | Basic Mechanics 1
EnE-103 Environmental Laws and Policies 2:
QT-101 Quran Translation | 1
Course Subject, Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
IS-201 L& P Studies/ E & P Studies-Il 3 EnE-202 Ecological Management 2
EnE-201 Environmental Microbiology 2 HU-221 Technical Writing and Presentation Skills 3
EnE-201L__| Environmental Microbiology 4 TEM-225 Transportation Engineering 2
CE-232 Fluid Mechanics 3 TEM-225L__| Transportation Engineering 1
CE-232L Fluid Mechanics 4 ME-238 Thermodynamics 2)
CE-235 Soil Mechanics 3 ME-238L Thermodynamics 1
CE-235L Soil Mechanics 4 CE-240 Engineering drawings and CAD 1
MA-242 Engineering Statistics 3 CE-240L Engineering drawings and CAD 2
CE-210 Structural Systems 3
QT-201 Quran Translation II 1
Course Subject, Credit Hours Course Subject, Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
CRP-301 Sustainable Urban Planning 2 CRP-302 GIS and Remote Sensing a
EnE-331 Water Supply and Wastewater Engineering 3 CRP-302L | GIS and Remote Sensing 1
Enk-331l'_| Water Supply and Wastewater Engmeering : EnE-335 Principles of Water and Wastewater Treatment 3
EnE-312 Environmental Economics 2 -
EnE-323 Solid Waste Management 3 EnE-335L Principles of Water and Wastewater Treatment 4
EnE-323L__| Solid Waste Management 1 ChE-320 Cleaner Production Techniques 2
EnE-324 Environmental Engineering Lab Techniques 1 CE-345 Water Resources & Irrigation Engineering 3
EnE-324L__| Environmental Engineering Lab Techniques 2 CE-346 Project Management and Construction Supervision 3
CE-333__| Engineering Hydrology 2 MA-346 | Numerical Methods 3
CE-333L__| Engineering Hydrology : 7-301 | Quran Translation I 1
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject, Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
EnE-431 Air Pollution Control and Climate Change 3 EnE-434 Water and Wastewater Treatment Plant Design 3
EnE-431L _| Air Pollution Control and Climate Change 1 EnE-434L __| Water and Wastewater Treatment Plant Design 1
EnE-432 Environmental Modeling 2 EnE-425 Environmental Impact Assessment and Management 3
EnE-432L _| Environmental Modeling 4 EnE-426 Wastewater Disposal and Reuse 2
EnE-433 Industrial and Hazardous Waste Management 3 MGT-413 Entrepreneurship 3:
ME-481 Energy Resources & Management 2 ChE-452 Environmental Health & Safety 3
EnE-404 _| Ethics and Interpersonal Skills 1 EnE-499 Final Year Project 3
QT-401 Quran Translation IV 1
72 EnE-499 | Final Year Project 3

 

 


Faculty of
Chemical Engineering


 


 

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING

Dean Dr. Azam Saeed Dr. Ayesha Irshad
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Naveed Ramzan Ms. Saira Bano
Assistant Professors Dr. Farhan Javed
Chairperson Mr. Qazi Zaka-ur-Rehman Dr. Hirra Anjum
Dr. Saima Yasin Dr. Humayun Wali
Dr. Muhammad Faheem Lecturers
Professor on SNGPL Chair of Gas Dr. Sidra Jabeen Mr. RizwanAli
Engineering Dr. UsmanAli Mr. Aamir Abbas
Dr. Saima Yasin (Acting) Dr. UmairAslam Ms. Hafiza Aroosa Aslam Khan
Dr. Umer Afzal Ms. Sobia Anwar
Associate Professors Dr. Muhammad Wasim Tahir
Dr. Hafiz Muhammad Zaheer Aslam Dr. MuhammadAsif Akhtar

Mission
The mission of the Undergraduate program of the Department of Chemical Engineering encompasses three (3) key aspects:
1. Education: To offer an outstanding academic program to enable graduates master process synthesis, design, and operation's knowledge
and develop excellent technical, technological, and leadership skills.
2. Research: To provide a vibrant interdisciplinary research program in engineering science, creating novel and sustainable solutions to
serve public interests in areas such as health, energy, and environment.

   

100 Years of Excellence


SUNOS MELSTRAR Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

3. Social Responsibility: To promote inclusive, safe, collaborative, and respectful community for learning and work with integrity

Program Educational Objectives
PEO-01: Demonstrate proficiency in Chemical Engineering knowledge through practice and research in engineering, scientific, and complementary
disciplines.
PEO-02:Achieve professional success with an understanding and appreciation of ethical behavior, social responsibility, and diversity, both as
individuals and in team environments.
PEO-03:Pursue continued lifelong learning and career growth through professional practice, graduate studies, and other training programs in
engineering sciences and management.

Courses of study

The Department offers courses of study leading to the following degrees:
a) B.Sc. Chemical Engineering
b) M.Sc. Chemical Engineering
c) Ph.D. Chemical Engineering

The curriculum for the Bachelor's course has evolved over a number of years and is designed to prepare the students for design, operation, and
supervision of chemical process plants as well as for research and development work in the process industry. Study tours and inspection trips are an
essential component of the curriculum, which enable the students to visit industrial plants and projects of national importance in chemical industry. The
students are assigned projects involving design and other aspects of Chemical Engineering. Emphasis is given to the use of computers in problem solving
and design of equipment and plants.

Laboratories and other Facilities
The Death has well-equipped and well-maintained laboratories in the following fields:

Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics Chemical Reaction Engineering
Computer Applications and Process Simulation - Energy Engineering
Environmental Engineering + Fluid Flow

Heat Transfer + Instrumental Analysis
Instrumentation and Control + Mass Transfer
Process/WetAnalysis

The Instrumental Analysis laboratory is equipped with state-of-the-art equipment including Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer, Bomb Calorimeter,
Elemental Analyzer, Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrophotometer (FTIR), Gas Chromatograph (GC), High Performance Liquid Chromatograph
(HPLC), and Ultraviolet (UV) Spectrophotometer.

The Department has a computer center equipped with latest systems. Apart from learning computer languages and applications in various courses of
Chemical Engineering, the students are encouraged to use this laboratory for their design projects, research dissertations, and class assignments.

The Department has a well-organized library with a large number of textbooks, handbooks, reference books, journals, design projects, and research these
submitted in the past. Latest publications are regularly added to the collection to cope with the modern research in the field.

 

100 Years of Exc


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

year B.Sc. Chemical Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
ChE-101 Industrial Stoichiometry — | 3 0 ChE-108 Fluid Flow-I 3 0
CS-101 & CS-101L} Computing Fundamentals 2 1 ChE-104 Health and Safety at Workplace 2 0
CY-142 & CY-142L| Physical and Analytical Chemistry 2 4 ChE-109 & ChE-109L} Chemical Process Industries 2 4
HU-111L Communication Skills 0 1 1S-101 or Hu-101 | Islamic and Pakistan Studies-| (Muslim students) or | 3 0
Ma-113 Calculus and Analytic Geometry 3 0 Ethics and Pakistan Studies-| (non-Muslim students)
ME-122L Engineering Drawing 0 2 Ma-118 Applied Mathematics and Statistics 3 0
QT-101 Translation of the Holy Qur'an -I 1 0 ME-100L Workshop Practice 0 1
PHY-113 & PHY-113L] Applied Physics i 4
Year2
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

 

ChE-201 Industrial Stoichiometry — II
ChE-203 & ChE-203L] Particle Technology
ChE-204 & ChE-204L} Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics - |
CY-221 & CY-221L | Inorganic and Organic Chemistry
HU-221L Technical Writing and Presentation Skills
MA-233L. Applied Mechanics
QT-201 Translation of the Holy Qur'an -II

ChE-208 & ChE-208L | Fluid Flow-Il
ChE-209 & ChE-209L | Process Heat Transfer
ChE-210 & ChE-210L | Separation processes-|
EE-140 &EE-140L | Electrical Technology
1S-201 or HU-201 | Islamic and Pakistan Studies-II (Muslim students) or
Ethics and Pakistan Studies-II (non-Muslim students)

Course Subject Credit Hours No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr ChE-313 Chemical Process Design & Economics
ChE-301& ChE-301L] Chemical Reaction Engineering ChE-314 Chemical Engineering Mathematics
ChE-311 Engineering Materials ChE-310 & ChE-310L] Separation Processes-ll
ChE-312 & ChE-312L| Unit Processes ChE-307 Transport Phenomena
ChE-304 Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics — || ChE-308 & ChE-308L] Energy Engineering
MA-240 & MA-240L | Numerical Analysis ChE-315L Process Modeling and Simulation
MGT-413 Entrepreneurship QT-301 Translation of the Holy Qur'an -III

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No, (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr

ChE-401 Chemical Reactor Design 0 ChE-406 & ChE-406L} Environmental Engineering
ChE-409 Chemical Process Equipment Design and Rating 0 ChE-432 to ChE-441 | Elective-ll
ChE-432 to ChE-441 | Elective-| 0 ChE-421 to ChE-431] Elective-Ill
1
0
3

 

 

 

 

oO} w] a]rm]o
So} w]alrm]w

 

 

 

Ba} ol ofr] wf wlo
of} =] a] 4]4]s]o

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

 

ChE-404 & ChE-404L| Instrumentation and Control ChE-421 to ChE-431) Elective-IV
ChE-410 Engineering Management ChE-412 Final Year Project — II
ChE-411 Final Year Project - | QT-401 Translation of the Holy Qur'an -IV

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


DEPARTMENT
a
aay be Wee) he 2g
NCINEERING

Ease ene aaa ae PROCESS ENGINEERING

 

Dean Associate Professors Dr. Muhammad Sarfraz
Prof. Dr. Ing. Naveed Ramzan Dr. Atif Javaid Dr. Rabia Nazar

Dr. Farhan Saeed Dr.Umer Mahmood
Chairman Dr. M. Farooq
Prof. Dr. AsifAli Qaiser Assistant Professors Dr. Aamir Shehzad

Dr. Yasir Qayyum Gill

Introduction

Polymer is emerging field of research and industrial commercialization that is finding a widespread and fast-growing use ranging from the consumer
market to specialized industrial and defense applications. In Pakistan, the polymer industry is one of the fastest growing sectors that needs trained
manpower and research support. Keeping this in view, the undergraduate degree program in Polymer and Process Engineering was launched, in 2002,
under the Polymer Engineering Division of the Department of Chemical Engineering. As a result of a far-reaching ambition, and keen vision which led to
the realization of the increasingly important role that Polymer Engineering plays in the world today, the university decided to upgrade the division into an
independent degree awarding department in January 2006. Further to this development, the postgraduate degree program in Polymer & Process
Engineering was started in 2007.

The Department of Polymer and Process Engineering has already gained considerable prestige and standing in the academic and industrial world due to
motivated and outstanding faculty, hardworking and dedicated administration, and state-of-the-art laboratories costing more than 100 million rupees.

 

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Programs being offered

The Department offers following degree programs:
a) B.Sc. Polymer Engineering
b) M.Sc. Polymer and Process Engineering
c) M.S. Polymer Science and Technology
d) PhD. Polymer Science and Engineering

Mission
To inculcate application-oriented knowledge of polymer engineering so that the graduates should serve the industrial and research sectors with their
developed analytical and design abilities showing high moral values and professional competency.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)

PEO-01: Technical Proficiency: Graduates will be technically competent and creative in all major aspects of polymer and process engineering as well
as supporting math and science disciplines, allowing these graduates to conduct experiments and test, solve problems based on data from
these experiments, design new products, materials, and processes, all with a commitment to quality, timeliness, and continuous
improvement.

PEO-02: Interpersonal Skills and Management: Graduates will exhibit appropriate interpersonal and managerial skills by showing flexibility and
adaptability in the workplace, possess the capacity to embrace new opportunities of emerging technologies and embrace leadership and
teamwork opportunities, all affording sustainable engineering careers.

PEO-03: Work ethics: Graduates will exhibit professional work ethics including an interestin personal and professional growth.

PEO-04: Awareness of Societal Impact: Graduates will be aware of how their professional role will impact the global community and will act with
global, ethical, societal, ecological, and commercial awareness expected of practicing engineering professionals.

PEO-05: Effective Communication: Graduates will be skilled in written and oral communication to effectively convey technical content.

All these areas have applications and relevance to the polymer manufacturing industry and various research organizations in the public sector. Our goals
are to advance scientific and engineering knowledge in these areas, to disseminate the information, and transfer this knowledge to the industry. Many
aspects of our research are interdisciplinary by nature, involving fruitful collaboration with other academic areas across traditional academic boundaries.

Laboratories and Other Facilities
Our laboratories fall into four categories:
e Undergraduate Teaching Laboratories e Research Laboratories
e — Industrial Testing and Product DevelopmentLaboratories Process Engineering Laboratories

1. Undergraduate Teaching Laboratories

Fundamentals of Polymer Engineering + Polymer Structures & Synthesis
Polymer Reaction Engineering + Simulationin Polymer Processing
Polymer Analysis & Characterization - — Polymer Processing Design

Rubber Compounding and Processing

2. Research Laboratories
Polymer Synthesis & Modification + _ PolymerAnalysis & Characterization
Polymer Testing + Advanced Polymer Composites and Blends
Conducting Polymer & Membrane Research

79

100 Years of Excellen


SUNOS MELSTRAR Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

3. Industrial Testing & Product Development
Plastic Pipe Testing and Quality Assurance +  PEFilm Testing
Plastic Materials and Products Testing under ASTM, ISO & PS Standards
Paints and adhesive testing

4. Process Engineering Laboratories

Process Heat Transfer + Fluid Flow
Mass Transfer + Instrumentation & Control
Particle Technology - Process Engineering Computing

Strong Internship Program
The productive collaboration with the industry has resulted in ample internship opportunities for our students. The Department provides 100 % Internship
toits 4" yearand many juniors, as well.

Careers in Polymer & Process Engineering

Polymers have numerous possibilities in structural, electrical, mechanical, and medical applications due to their unique physical properties and ability to
be tailored through chemistry, cross-linking, and surface modification. Polymers are the most rapidly growing sector of the materials industry. As polymer
production has grown, so has the number of people who work in this field.

Our graduates find jobs in:
+ Polymer producing companies such as PVC, PET, and other resins.
Polymer Packaging industries.
Plastic (PVC, PPRC etc.) pipe making industries.
Automotive, foams, paints, and flexible films industries etc.
Research and product development in polymer synthesis (current hot topics include biodegradable polymers and compatibilizers for
recycling polymers).

The reception by the industry to our graduates in the past years has been remarkable. Demand is ever-growing. Some of the employers of our graduates
are Packages (Pvt) Limited, Engro Polymer Karachi, Descon Engineering Pvt. Limited, Attock Oil Refinery, Pakistan Petroleum, National Refinery, Fauji
Fertilizer Company, Fatima Fertilizers, Engro Fertilizers, Lotte PTA, Popular Pipes, Panther Tires and Service Industries Pvt. Ltd, Awan sports, Roshan
Packages, SPEL.

Our graduates find a promising scope in higher studies both in Pakistan and overseas. The advanced and multidisciplinary nature of B.Sc. Polymer
Engineering Degree has exceptional acceptability, particularly in the overseas academic world. Each year, a number of our graduates proceed abroad on
scholarships pursuing their higher studies.

 

100 Years of Exc


Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 eee

 

 

B.Sc. Polymer Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
PPE-107 | Engineering Materials 3 0 PPE-108 & PPE-108L} Fundamentals of Polymer Engineering 3 1
HU-111 Communicational Skills 0 1 PPE-109 Industrial Stoichiometry 3 0
LCs-101 | Computing Fundamentals 2 1 PPE-110 & PPE-110 | Particle Technology 2 1
CY-161 Polymer Chemistry-I 2 1 LMA-118 Applied Mathematics & Statistics 3 0
MA-113 | Calculus and Analytical Geometry 3 0 ME 100 Workshop Practice 0 1
IS-101 Islamic and Pakistan Studies | or HU 101 Ethics and 3 0 LEE-101 Applied Electricity 3 1
Pakistan Studies-
QT-101 Translation of the Holy Qur’an- 4 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
PPE-207 & PPE- 207L | Fluid Flow 3 1 PPE-211 & PPE-211L| Heat Transfer 3 1
PPE-208 & PPE- 208L | Polymer Structures & Synthesis (CY-161) 3 1 PPE-212 Environmental Engineering & Process Safety 3 0
PPE-209 Chemical & Petrochemical Industries 3 0 PPE-213 & PPE-213L| Polymer Processing Operations (PPE-108) 3 1
PPE-210 Thermodynamics 3 0 PPE-215 Engineering Economics 3 0
HU-221L Technical Writing & Presentation Skills 0 1 PPE-214L Process Engineering Computing 0 1
QT-201 Translation of the Holy Qur’an-l| 1 0 18-201 Islamic and Pakistan Studies I] or HU 201 3 0
Ethics and Pakistan Studies-l|
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
PPE-313 & PPE-313L | Mass Transfer 3 1 PPE-318 & PPE-318L | Polymer Analysis & Characterization (PPE-108) 3 1
PPE-314 Mechanical Properties of Polymers (PPE-108) 3 0 PPE-319 & PPE-319 | Instrumentation & Control 3 1
PPE-315 & PPE-315 | Polymer Reaction Engineering (PPE-208) 3 1 PPE-320 Polymer Composites 3 0
PPE-316 Polymer Compounding & Blending (PPE-108) 3 0 PPE-321 Polymer Rheology 3 0
PPE-317 Transport Phenomena 3 0 PPE-322 Total Quality Management 3 0
QT-301 Translation of the Holy Qur’an-Ill 1 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
PPE-418 Entrepreneurial Management 3 0 PPE-414 Polymer Product Design (PPE-108) 3 0
PPE-416 Final Year Project-| (PPE-318) 0 3 PPE-415 & PPE-415L| Polymer Processing Design & Simulation 3 1
PPE-413 & PPE-413) Process Plant Design (PPE- 207,211,313,315) 3 1 (PPE-213)
PPE-4XX Elective-I 3 0 PPE-417 Final Year Project-Il (PPE-416) 0
PPE-4XX Elective-Il 3 0 PPE-4XX Elective-Ill
QT-401 Translation of the Holy Qur’an-IV 1 0 PPE-4XX Elective-IV 3 0

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dean

Prof. Dr.-Ing Naveed Ramzan Professor

Prof. Dr. Muhammad Asif Rafiq Assistant Professors
Chairman Dr. Ehsan Ul Haq
Prof. Dr.-Ing Furqan Ahmed Associate Professors Dr. Adnan Maqbool

Dr. Ather Ibrahim Dr. Muhammad Asif Hussain

Dr. Muhammad Zain UlAbdein
Mission
To produce Metallurgical and Materials Engineers with strong professional knowledge, sound ethical values, a passion for lifelong learning and keen
sense of social responsibilities. The graduates are trained for their active role in academia, industry and R&D sector at national and international level
keeping in view the latest trends and maintaining the standards in the field.

Introduction

The Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering has successfully provided the students with the high quality of education and training in the
field of advanced metals and modern materials. A well-trained and dedicated faculty together with well-equipped laboratories makes it one of the most
accomplished departments. The total enrollment of students in the Departmentis 250.

Courses of Study
The educational objective of Bachelor's degree program is to produce graduates with string understanding of science and engineering concepts of both

82

100 Years of Excellence


 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 eee

metals and modern materials. The curriculum has been designed for the metallurgy courses being offered in this program ranging from relevant concepts
of extractive, industrial and physical metallurgy to the science and design of different modern metals and alloys used in engineering applications. In
materials engineering courses being offered with the focus on material synthesis, processing and characterization techniques. Students are taught the
fundamentals and trained for the refinement, selection, processing and design of modern materials including polymers, ceramics, bio-materials,
nanomaterials, and composites.

To produce the graduates maintaining a professional standard, exposure to an integrated knowledge based on mathematics, chemistry, physics and
management sciences is also emphasized. Instructional tours to metallurgical industries, material development industries, and research organizations
are frequently arranged to help the students to relate their theoretical knowledge with industrial practices. Educational seminars of the personals from
industry and national and international institutes are also arranged to keep the students up to data with the international market demands. The students
are also engaged in internships with different metallurgical and materials related organizations every year for practical training. The internships help the
students to develop their academic concepts and prepare themselves to tackle the practical problems of the industry.

Laboratories and Other Facilities
The department's academic activity is based on the following main disciplines:

Physical Metallurgy Mechanical Metallurgy and Mechanics of Materials
Ferrous and Non-Ferrous Materials + — Polymeric Materials

Ceramic Materials - — Composite Materials

Bio and Nano-Materials + Electric and Magnetic Materials

Corrosion and Corrosion Prevention + — Foundry Engineering

Heat Treatment

Depatinent is equipped with the following laboratories:

Ceramic and Composites + — Polymeric Materials

Inspections and Testing of Materials + Welding and Joining of Materials
Corrosion and Protection + Metallography

Foundry Engineering + Computer

Heat Treatment + Mechanical Workshop

The Department has a library with over thirteen hundred handbooks, textbooks, and reference books for faculty members and students. The library is
provided with internet facility to access the HEC digital library and research articles from national and international web sources. Department has a
computer laboratory that is equipped with some advanced simulation software for the students to have hands on experience on the modern tools of
materials engineering.

Careers in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering

Career opportunities in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering both at home and abroad are excellent. Metallurgical and materials engineering focuses
on engineering materials, their extraction, processing, design, development, manufacture, properties, and industrial applications etc. The engineers in
this field can find jobs in industries like nuclear, chemical, electrical, microelectronics, construction as well as defense sector. They can also make their
careers in the fields like iron & steel, non-ferrous alloys, polymeric materials, ceramic materials, composites, electronic & magnetic materials, corrosion &
its prevention.

 

100 Years of Exce

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

B.Sc. Metallurgical Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
EE 199 Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering 3 1 PHY 114 Applied Physics 2 1
ME 122L Engineering Drawing 0 2 CY 151 Material Chemistry-I 2 1
MME 101 Introduction to Metallurgy and Materials 3 4 ME 100L Workshop Practice 0 4
Is 101 Islamic and Pakistan Studies-| 3 0 HU 111L Communication Skills 0 1
MA 111 Applied Mathematics-I 3 0 MME 102 Mechanics of Materials 2 0
MA 112 Applied Mathematics-II 3 0
MME 103 Industrial Safety and Environmental Engineering 3 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
MME 201 | Fuels and Furnaces 2 0 MME 211 Physical Metallurgy 3 1
MME 210 | Foundry Engineering 3 1 MME 203 Powder Metallurgy 3 0
IS 201 Islamic and Pakistan Studies-II 3 0 MME 204 Polymeric Materia 3 1
MA 240 Numerical Analysis 2 1 MME 205 | Islron and Steel Making Processes 3 0
HU 221 Technical Writing & Presentation Skills 3 0 MA 242 Engineering Statistics 3 0
MME 202 _| Applied thermodynamics 3 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
MME 311 | Mechanical Behavior of Engineering Materials 3 0 MME 304 | Process Control and Instrumentation 2 0
MME 312 | Ceramic Materials 3 1 MME 321 | Heat Treatment and Phase Transformation (MME 211)| 3 1
MME 301 | Electrical and Magnetic Materials 3 0 MME 305 | Welding and Joining of Materials 3 1
MME 302 | Non-Ferrous Extractive Metallurgy 3 0 MME 306 | Industrial and Financial management 3 0
MME 303 | Inspection and Quality Assurance 3 1 MME 307L_ | Computational Methods in Materials Engineering 0 2
MME 308 | Characterization of Engineering Materials 3 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
MME 420 | Solidification of Metals and Alloys (MME 210) 3 1 MME 403 Composite Materials 3 1
MME 421 | Metal Working Processes (MME 311) 3 0 MME 404 Corrosion and Corrosion Control 3 1
MME 422 | Advance Ceramics (MME 312) 3 0 MME 405 Surface Science and Engineering 2 0
MME 401 | Nuclear Materials 2 0 MME 406 Bio Materials 2 0
MME 402 ‘| Nano Materials 2 0 MME 407 Vacuum Technology 2 0
MME 411 | Final Project-I 0 3 MME 412 Final Project-Il (MME 411) 0 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Oa __
Earth Sciences & Engineering


 


 

Dr. Muhammad Zaka Emad
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Zubair Abubakar Dr. Shahab Saqib Dr. Muhammad Shahzad
Dr. Yasir Majeed Dr. Muhammad Usman Khan

Prof. Dr. ZulfiqarAli
Dr. Muhammad Badar Hayat Mr. Mirza Muhammad Zaid
Dr. Muhammad Azeem Raza Mr. Muhammad Mansoor Iqbal

The Department of Mining Engineering was established in 1954, as part of the Maclagan Engineering College, and has the distinction of being the first in
the country to offer a formal degree course in Mining Engineering. Mining Engineering program has the tradition, history and repute of producing quality
mining engineers who are serving both nationally and internationally.

The mission of the department is to continue to improve and maintain quality graduate program, that is well supported by a modern and up-to-date
curriculum and labs, and qualified faculty, and to produce technically competent and disciplined mining engineers who possess the required leadership
and team skills and can compete in the global job market.

The mining engineering graduates will be able to:
PEO-01: Mining engineering graduates demonstrate sound analytical, technical and design capabilities to cope with latest global advances in mining 87

100 Years of Exc

 


ieee Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

engineering practices.

PEO-02: Mining engineering graduates can comprehend, exercise, and innovate solutions to engineering problems, on-going research, and global
issues.

PEO-03: Mining engineering graduates are aware of societal issues and their professional and ethical responsibilities, including health, safety,
environmental, and legal aspects and Corporate Social Responsibility.

PEO-04: Mining engineering graduates have leadership aptitude, teamwork spirits, and inter-personal skills and embrace lifelong learning to foster
individual as well as organizational goals in diverse settings.

Courses of Study
The Department offers the following degree programs:
a) B.Sc. Mining Engineering
b) M.Sc. Mining Engineering
) M.Sc. Tunneling and Underground Excavation Engineering
) Ph.D. Mining Engineering

a0

The curriculum for the Bachelor's degree in Mining Engineering is broad-based in its contents and is designed to produce graduates who can cope with a
wide range of tasks, which a mining engineer is called upon to perform. It offers basic subjects in science and engineering in the first two years; in the later
two years it covers the relevant subjects in mining operations, geology, management and mine environment in detail. The graduate students are prepared
to handle the geotechnical problems related to surface and underground excavations, the extraction and beneficiation of coal and other minerals, and
other rock and mine/mineral related problems.

Career Choices and Job Placement

Adegree in Mining Engineering offers attractive careers both in private and public sectors. The private sector jobs include coal mining, cement industry,
hydro-power projects, tunneling and underground construction projects, and coal energy sector.

The government sector, where the mining engineers are employed, includes the Mines and Minerals Department, Govt. of Punjab, the Inspectorate of
Mines, Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC), Punjab Mineral Development Corporation (PUNJMIN), Pakistan Atomic Energy
Commission, and National Development Complex (NDC), etc.

Field Training and Internships

Industrial tours and field internships are an integral part of the mining engineering curriculum and are arranged for the students on regular basis. In
addition, two to three week summer field surveying camp and a week-long first aid training camp are also compulsory requirements for the completion of
the degree program.

Laboratory and Other Facilities
The department has the following major laboratories:

Mineral Processing + Mine Surveying

Rock Mechanics + Mine Environment
Applied/ Structural Geology + _ Mine Safety and Rescue
Explosives Engineering + — Excavation Engineering

Mine Design and Simulation

Other facilities include a well-stockedlibrary in the department, a computer center and a graduate study room. Some of the key equipment in our
departmentincludes a 200-Ton Universal Testing Machine, Rock abrasively and Brittleness test set-ups and a total survey station.

 

100 Years of Exc


 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

 

 

www.uet.edu.pk

 

B.Sc. Mining Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
MA-113 Calculus & Analytic Geometry 3 0 PHY 114 Computing Fundamentals 2 1
ME-122L | Engineering Drawing 0 2 CY 151 Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering 3 1
Min-E-110 | Applied Geology 3 1 ME 100L Applied Physics 2 1
CY-143 Physical and Industrial Chemistry 3 1 HU 111L Communication Skills 0 1
ME-100L__| Workshop Practice 0 1 MME 102 | Stratigraphy and Structural Geology 2 1
1S-104 Islamic & Pakistan Studies-| 3 0 MA 112 Mining Engineering Fundamentals 3 0
MME 103 Translation of the Holy Quran-I 1 0
Year 2 Semester 4
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
MA-228 | Differential Equations 3 0 MA-234 Linear Algebra 3 0
MA-235 | Engineering Mechanics 2 1 MA-242 Engineering Statistics 3 0
CE-231 Fluid Mechanics-! 3 1 ME-220 Mechanics of Materials 3 1
ME-210 Applied Thermodynamics 3 1 HU-221 Technical Writing and Presentation Skills 3 0
1S-201 Islamic & Pakistan Studies-II 3 0 Min-E-240 | Surveying 3 2
QT-201 Translation of the Holy Quran-ll 1 0
Year 3 Semester 6
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
Min-E-350 | Rock Mechanics 3 1 Min-E-352 | Mine Power Drainage & Material Handling 3 1
Min-E-351 | Mineral Exploration 3 1 Min-E-360 | Ground Control Engineering 3 0
MA-240 | Numerical Analysis 2 1 Underground Mine Design 3 0
Min-E-353 | Mine Ventilation 3 1 Surface Mine Design 3 0
Geo-E-353 | Introduction to GIS and Remote Sensing 2 1 Min-E-363 | Explosives Engineering 3 1
QT-301 Translation of the Holy Quran-lIl 1 0
Year 4 TTT ad
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
IME-371 _ | Engineering Economics 2 0 Min-E-484 | Mine Hazards, Safety and Health Management 3 1
MGT-410 _ | Project Management 3 0 # Social Science Elective* 3 0
Min-E-470 | Tunneling and Excavation Engineering 3 1 # Technical ElectiveS 3 0
Min-E-473 | Mining and Environment 2 0 Min-E-483 | Mining Law 1 0
Min-E-472 | Mineral Processing 3 1 Min-E-485 | Senior Design Project-II 0 3
Min-E-475 | Senior Design Project-| 0 3 QT-401 Translation of the Holy Quran-IV 1 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

NOTE: FirstAid Training and Field Survey Camp are mandatory.#: Course number of the offered elective course will be used
*: From offered Social Science Elective Courses

$: From the offered Technical Elective Courses

Social Science Electives Technical Electives

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
To be offered by —_| Sociology 3 0 Min-E-421 Coal Technology 3 0
Humanities Min-E-422 Solution Mining 3 0
department Min-E-423 Operations Research 3 0
To be offered by | Understanding of Psychology 3 0 Min-E-425 Cement Technology 3 0
Humanities and Human Behavior Min-E-426 Commercial Explosive Handling and storage 3 0
department Min-E-427 Drilling Technology 3 0
Min-E-403 Organizational Behavior 3 0
Min-E-404 Professional Ethics 3 0
MGT-413 Entrepreneurship 3 0

 

 

 

 

 


I
==
.

  

 

:

  

Prof. Dr. Muhammad Zubair Abu Bakar Dr. Muhammad Arshad Mr. Ahsan Mehmood
Ms. Maryum Zameer Khan
Mr. Umer Waqas
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Faroog Ahmed Ms. Sadia Ismail Mr. Atif Ismail
Dr. Hafiz Muhammad Awais Rashid
Dr. Ghulam Mohyuddin Sohail

To develop scientific and engineering knowledge and equip its graduates with modern skills in geological engineering, enabling them to become leaders in
engineering practices and research for the socio-economic development at national and international levels.

PEO-01: Demonstrate the proficiency of applying the scientific and engineering knowledge to identify, analyze and investigate the issues related
to geological engineering practice.

PEO-02: Express the ability and skills to utilize the modern tools to solve complex engineering problems with due environmental considerations.

PEO-03: Exhibit the quality to work as an individual or in a team with leadership skills to design and supervise infrastructure projects by
following professional ethics and adequate safety measures.

PEO-04: Display the spirit of discipline, effective communication, continuous professional improvement and management skills while working in
a globally competitive environment.

In the 21* century, the most vital challenge faced is the preservation and efficient utilization of Geo-Space and its resources without disturbing the

91

100 Years of Exc

 


ieee Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

ecological balance. The Geological Engineering degree program aims to come up with engineering solutions, which can meet the challenges in the field of
geotechnical engineering, rock mechanics and tunneling, natural energy resources exploration and to give solution to the environmental impact of
groundwater resources. Geological Engineering discipline was introduced in 2001, for the first time, in the country by the University of Engineering and
Technology, Lahore, under the Mining Engineering Department. In view of the national demand and popularity of the degree program, an independent
Department of Geological Engineering was established in January 2006.

The primary objective of the program is to provide professional engineers in the field of:
e Rock Engineering and Geotechnical Engineering e Natural Energy Resources Exploration
e@ Geoenvironmental Engineering

The departmentis currently offering the following degrees:
a) B.Sc. Geological Engineering b) M.Sc. Geological Engineering
c) M.Sc. Geological Sciences d) Ph.D. Geological Engineering

Field Visits and Instructional Tours

Field visits and instructional tours are an essential part of B.Sc Geological Engineering degree program. The Department arranges a number of
instructional tours to different areas where students are exposed to different aspects of this degree program and beautiful landscapes. In such an
environment, students learn professional skills enthusiastically and relish the field trips. In addition to instructional tours, survey camp and field geology
camp are also conducted, which are considered mandatory for the completion of the degree. The most famous locations for the instructional tours are
Abbottabad, Mansehra, Muzaffarabad, Khewra Gorge, Namal Gorge, Salt Range, Dam sites (Tarbela, Mangla, Khanpur, NeelumJehlum, etc.), different
oil/gas drilling rig sites and visits to different construction sites. These tours give the students necessary exposure to the natural field conditions and
prepares them to work in the field. Sometimes the students with an exceptional academic record can get the opportunity to visit abroad for advanced
learning under funding offered by international agencies.

Liaison/Internship with Industry

The department has established continuing links with the geotechnical and petroleum industries. As a result, many national and multinational
organizations are providing internships for practical training. Leading companies, including NESPAK, WAPDA, MMP, Berkeley Associates, NDC, ACE,
OGDCL, NURICON, Punjab Mineral Company, etc., also offer internships and job.

Collaboration with International Universities

The Department of Geological Engineering is currently collaborating with Saitama University, Japan. This research and academic collaboration mainly
focuses on promoting mutual research projects and the exchange of faculty and students between the Department of Geological Engineering and the
Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Saitama University, Japan.

Pepa Laboratories

Engineering Geology + Geotechnical Engineering
Geophysics + — Excavation Engineering
Hydrogeology +  Geoenvironmental Engineering
Physical Geology + Mineralogy and Petrology
Computing

mys Research Areas
Engineering Geology + Geotechnical and Geo-Mechanics
Geophysical Exploration Non-Explosive Rock Fragmentation
Tunnel Design and Mechanical Excavation
Geotechnical Instrumentations +  Geoenvironmental Engineering
Hydrogeology and Environment + Drilling and Petrophysical Well Logging
Petroleum Related Rock Mechanics + — Borehole Geomechanics

92

100 Years of Exc

 


 

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 womencuetioduiph

B.Sc. Geological Engineering

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

EE-199 Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering PHY-117 Applied Physics

MA-113 Calculus and Analytic Geometry MA-116 Linear Algebra And Differential Equations

CY-143 Physical and Industrial Chemistry Geo-E-120 | Structural Geology and Stratigraphy

ME-122L | Engineering Drawing CS-101 Computing Fundamentals
Geo-E-110 | Physical Geology HU-111 Communication Skills
Islamic& Pakistan Studies-| (Compulsory for Muslim
IS -101 Students)-Ethics & Pakistan Studies (Compulsory for] 3 0
non-Muslim Students)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wlo}wlwlw
alm}atlol=
SO} m]}m]fe]rm
a}alalof=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ME-100L. Workshop Practice 0 4

QT-101 Translation of the Holy Quran-! 1 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

 

MA-235 | Engineering Mechanics
MA-242 | Engineering Statistics
ME-210 | Applied Thermodynamics
CE-231 Fluid Mechanics-I

GEO-E-230 | Mineralogy and Petrology
QT-201 Translation of the Holy Quran-ll

MA-240 NumerAical Analysis
MIN-E-240 | Surveying

ME-220 Mechanics of Materials

HU-221 Technical Writing and Presentation Skills

IS -201 Islamic& Pakistan Studies- Il (Compulsory for Muslim
Students)-Ethics & Pakistan Studies (Compulsory for 3 0
non-Muslim Students)

 

 

 

w]w]olr
ofa[y]s

 

 

alrm]wlololrm

 

ofa]/sa}s}o}=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
GEO-E-350 | Engineering Geology 3 1 GEO-E-360 | Drilling Engineering 2 1
GEO-E-351 | Geotechnical Engineering | 3 1 GEO-E-361 | Introduction to Geophysical Exploration Techniques 3 1
GEO-E-352 | Petroleum Geolog 2 1 GEO-E-362 | Earthquake Seismology & Risk Assessment 2 1
GEO-E-353 | Introduction to GIS/RS 2 1 IME-374 | Engineering Economics 3 0
MIN-E-350 | Rock Mechanics 3 1 MIN-E-363 | Explosives Engineering 3 1
QT-301 Translation of the Holy Quran-lIl 1 0

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

 

 

GEO-E-470 | Petrophysics & Well Logging Hydrogeology
GEO-E-471 | Geotechnical Engineering I!

3 MGT-408 | Project Management
3
GEO-E-472 | Tunneling and Excavation Engineering 3
3
0

GEO-E-480 | Environmental Geology & Hazardous Waste Management
GEO-E-481 | Pavement & Foundation Engineering
GEO-E-485 | Senior Design Project II

QT-401 Translation of the Holy Quran-IV

 

 

 

 

 

 

MIN-E-470 | Senior Design
GEO-E-475 | Project |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a}olrm] elo
o}w}lalalo

 

 

93

 


 

Prof. Dr. Muhammad Zubair Abubakar Mr. Azam Khan Mr. Muhammad Rizwan Latif

Dr. Arshad Raza Mr. Muhammad KashifAli
Dr.Arshad S.A. Shahid Mr. Hasan Jehanzaib
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Khurram Zahoor Mr. Mahwish Akram

The Department of Petroleum and Gas Engineering has the distinction of being the pioneer in the country to offer degree programs in Petroleum and Gas
Engineering. It was first instituted in 1969 as a division of Mining Engineering Department. Realizing the importance of the discipline and the department
by the national petroleum sector, a full-fledged department of Petroleum and Gas Engineering was established in 1975.

The department has been the major contributor towards endowing and establishing the profession of Petroleum Engineering in Pakistan and has always
maintained a leading role in petroleum engineering education. It is now almost two decades that the department started the postgraduate programs and
has since strengthened its research capabilities over the years. The department offers degree program at Undergraduate and Postgraduate levels in
Petroleum & Gas Engineering.

To transform young brains into brilliant Petroleum Engineers, through modern teaching and research, to achieve professional excellence in oil and gas
industry for sustainable socio-economic development.

 

100 Years of Exc


www.uet.edu.pk

 

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Program Education Objectives (PEOs)
The education objectives of Petroleum and Gas Engineering program are as follows:
PEO-01: To equip graduates with updated engineering knowledge and research skills for examining and solving complex industry problems in a
cost-effective manner.
PEO-02: To enhance graduates’ interpersonal, teamwork and management skills while focusing on socio-economic development in an eco-
friendly manner.
PEO-03: To develop an aptitude for lasting personal capacity-building through continued professional development, along with integrity and a
sense of ethical norms and values

The curriculum is diversified and includes courses in Production Engineering, Artificial Lift Methods, Reservoir Engineering, Petroleum Fluid Properties,
Enhanced Oil Recovery Techniques, Well Testing, Well Logging, Natural Gas Transmission & Distribution, Rock Properties, Petroleum Economics,
Storage Problems and many other related subjects. In addition to these, strong support of basic sciences courses at different levels is also a part of the
curriculum.

Actual field data and related problems are included in the courses to develop field-oriented approach in the students. The spread of the course contents is
broad enough to groom the graduates for any major area of petroleum engineering profession. Students are provided opportunities to visit oil and gas
fields to familiarize themselves with the tasks and operations they have to undertake in their professional career.

Laboratories and Other Facilities

The department has following laboratories to meet academic and research needs of both students and faculty members:
Petroleum Reservoir Fluids - — Petrophysics
Drilling Engineering +  Computer/Reservoir Simulation
Gas Engineering

The department has the facility of a well-stocked library as well. Thereare more than 2000 books in the library. The Japanese aid, through JICA Program for
laboratory equipment, resulted in upgradation of laboratories. Apart from university merit scholarships, students have opportunity to avail scholarship from
the local industry, District Government and Zakat Fund. Majority of students get financial support from these scholarships.

The research areas of the faculty include reservoir engineering, production engineering, drilling engineering, enhanced oil recovery, well testing and
reservoir simulation. The department is working on a consolidated program to offer professional courses and consultancy services to the industry. The
students have the opportunity to carry outcomprehensive research projects related to practical industrial problems as part of their final year projects.

The graduates of the department are offered well-paid positions in national and multinationalcompanies. A large number of graduates of the department
are serving worldwide including Middle East, Europe, North America, Africa, etc.

Liaison with the Industry

Akey to modern day success in any profession rests with the integrated working environment between different components of that profession. In this
regard, it is very important that the institution must have live coordination with relevant industry, so is true for the Department of Petroleum and Gas
Engineering. Despite the fact that petroleum industry of Pakistan is clustered in Islamabad and Karachi, the departmenthas successfully managed to
establish and strengthen effective coordination.

Students are exposed to the industry through instructional tours, seminars by field experts and summer internships. Thanks to the industry's support,
majority of our third year and final year undergraduate students avail summer internships.

95

100 Years of Excellen


www.uet.edu.pk

Collaboration with International Universities

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

The Department of Geological Engineering is currently collaborating with Saitama University, Japan. This research and academic collaboration mainly
focuses on promoting mutual research projects and the exchange of faculty and students between the Department of Geological Engineering and the
Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Saitama University, Japan.

nara Laboratories
Engineering Geology
Geophysics
Hydrogeology
Physical Geology
Computing

Key Research Areas
- — Engineering Geology
Geophysical Exploration
Tunnel Design and Mechanical Een
Geotechnical Instrumentations
Hydrogeology and Environment
Petroleum Related Rock Mechanics

Geotechnical Engineering
Excavation Engineering
Geoenvironmental Engineering
Mineralogy and Petrology

Geotechnical and Geo-Mechanics
Non-Explosive Rock Fragmentation

Geoenvironmental Engineering
Drilling and Petrophysical Well Logging
Borehole Geomechanics

 

 

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

B.Sc. Petroleum Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
Pet.E-101 | Fundamentals of Petroleum Engineering 3 0 QT-101 Translation of Holy Quran-| 1 0
CS-101 Computing Fundamentals 2 1 Pet. E-102 Petroleum Geology & Geophysics 3 0
HU-111L__ | Communication Skills 0 1 Pet.E-103 | Occupational Health and Safety 1 0
MA-123 Calculus 3 0 CY-171 Petroleum Chemistry 2 1
ME-120L Engineering Drawing & Graphics 0 1 IS-101 Islamic & Pakistan Studies-| 3 0
Min-E-110 | Applied Geology 3 1 MA-129 Vector and Complex Analysis 3 0
ME-100L Workshop Practice 0 1
Phy-115 Applied Physics 2 1
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
QT-201 Translation of Holy Quran-l| 1 0 Pet.E-205 | Properties of Reservoir Fluids 3 1
Pet. E-203 | Petrophysics 2 1 C.E-233 Fluid Mechanics 2 1
Pet. E-204 | Drilling Engineering-I 3 1 Ch E-251 Applied Thermodynamics 3 1
CE-213 Strength of Materials 2 1 HU-221 Technical Writing & Presentation Skills 3 0
EE-201 Electrical Engineering and Electronics 2 1 MA-225 Differential Equations and Transforms 3 0
1S-201 Islamic & Pakistan Studies-II 3 0
Year 3 Semester 6
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
QT-301 Translation of Holy Quran-lll 1 0 Pet. E-306 | Drilling Engineering-II 3 1
Pet. E-313 | Well Logging 2 1 Pet. E-315 | Petroleum Production Engineering-| 3 1
Pet. E-314 | Reservoir Engineering 3 1 Pet. E-317 | Petroleum Economics & Risk Analysis 3 0
Pet. E-322 | Natural Gas Processing & Pipeline Management 3 1 ChE-351 | Chemical Technology of Petroleum 3 1
MA-343 | Applied Probability and Statistics 3 0 Natural Science/ Math Electives 213 | 1/0
MA-346 | Numerical Methods 3 0
Koa Year 4 aed
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
Pet. E-422 | Principles of Reservoir Simulation 2 1 QT-401 Translation of Holy Quran-IV 1 0
Pet. E-424 | Well Testing 2 1 Pet. E-421 | Field Operations in Petroleum Engineering 3 0
Pet. E-425 | Petroleum Production Engineering-Il 3 1 Pet. E-423 | Reservoir Management 2 1
ChE-453 | Environment & Safety 2 1 Pet. E-429 | Principles of Enhanced Oil Recovery 3 1
Pet. E-491 | Project (Phase-l) 0 3 Pet. E-492 | Project (Phase-ll) 0 3
MGT-413 | Entrepreneurship 3 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


(OU NAOS
Architecture & Planning


 


 

Ar.Adnan Jalil
Prof. Dr. Rizwan Hameed Dr. Shama Anbrine Dr. Maryam Siddiq
Dr. Malik Usman Mehmood Awan
Ar. Quratulain Asghar
Prof. Dr. Rizwan Hameed Ar. Mamuna Iqbal Ar. Hina Nabeel
Ar. Madina Zaman
Ar. QudsiaAsif
Dr. Munazzah Akhtar Ar. RabiaAhmed Qureshi

The Department of Architecture has a history spanning over 58 years. Established in 1962, it has the distinction of offering the first-degree program of
Architecture in Pakistan. Thus, the Department has been a fundamental contributor towards the founding and establishment of the profession of
Architecture in the country. The Department has a large body of alumni with nearly 1500 graduates, and through them, it has the honour and credit of
shaping a significant part of the current built environmentin Pakistan

Over the decades, the Department has developed soundexpertise in various facets of the profession of Architecture. Currently, the faculty of the
Department is far surpassing than any other school/department of architecture in the country; in terms of qualification, as well as width and breadth of
relevant knowledge base. The Department, thus has not only maintained its leading role in architectural education, it is set to further expand its frontiers
through specializations through its Masters and Ph.D. program.

 

100 Years of Excel


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

The programs offered in the department are listed as below:
a) Bachelor of Architecture (B.Arch)
b) Master of Architecture (M.Arch)
c) Ph.D. in Architecture

Bachelor Degree Program in Architecture (B.Arch)
B.Archis a five-year study program leading to a professional degree in Architecture. Graduates of this program fulfil all licensing requirements of (PCATP),
and subject to registration with it, are able to practice Architecture anywhere in Pakistan.

The B.Arch program of study is highly demanding and only those students are recommended to apply who are willing to work long hours. Furthermore, a
significant component of studies involve fieldwork, where students are required to visit construction sites, conduct field surveys, and join out of station
study tours. B. Arch degree requirements also include 12 weeks of internship in a professional establishment, which would typically take place during
summer vacations.

Graduate Programs in Architecture

The graduate program in architecture was instituted in 1990. By now, ithas matured and includesM. Arch and Ph.D. programs. The M. Arch is primarily a
taught course which culminates in a dissertation by research. The Ph.D. program comprises of coursework and research. These are essentially intended
for academics or mature architects who have developed an interest in some particular aspect of the built environment that they tend to explore it deeply.

Objectives And Academic System

The Bachelor of Architecture degree program provides a liberal introduction to study architecture as a discipline and to produce all rounder individuals who
can play a leading role in shaping up a healthy society. Students gain a critical and ethical awareness of architecture with much to offer in the face of many
of today's most pressing societal challenges. It equips students to join other design fields or related disciplines, and it prepares students for the Master of
Architecture degree. The course content includes Basic Design, Architectural Design, History of Architecture, Materials and Construction, Physical
Environmental Studies, Structural Systems, Theory of Architecture, Interior Design, Landscape Architecture etc. Research Methodology etc. The first
year begins by introducing the fundamentals before studies of the major subjects in which students are required to design projects of different typologies.
The students can have a better sense of life and ability to produce well adjusted whole by blending different aspects: function, form, structure, techniques,
context and culture.

The departmental pedagogy exhibits a strongly belief in the fact that the purpose of university education, above and beyond professional training is
broadening the intellectual horizons and to produce enlightened and progressive members of society. Hence the teaching practices at the department aim
to achieve these objectives by providing a thorough knowledge base through formal curriculum, combined with exposure to a social and intellectual
environment developed and maintained through informal and co-curricular activities. The students are encouraged to participate in the national and
provincial activities under the patronization of Pakistan Council of Architects and Planners (PCATP) and Institute of Architects of Pakistan (IAP).

The built environment to a great extent influence and facilitate in imparting quality education. The Department of Architecture has well furnished design
studios, lecture theatres, library and well equipped computer and physical environmental studies labs.

The department has a well stocked library with a large number of books and magazines on Basic Design, Architectural Design, History of Architecture,

Building Construction, Physical Environmental Studies, Theory of Architecture, Urban Planning & Design, Research Methodology, Landscape
Architecture, Interior Design etc. Other than books and Journals, a separate section exists containing B. Arch and M. Arch Thesis on variety of topics.

101

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Year 1 Bachelor in Architecture

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

Arch:101 | Basic Design - | Arch:111 Basic Design - II

Arch:102 | Materials and Construction - | Arch:117 Structural Systems - |
Arch:103 | History of Civilization - | Arch:113 History of Civilization - II
Arch:104 _ | Architectural Graphics - | Arch:114 Model Making

CE:101 Elementary Surveying Arch:115 Free Hand Sketching

HU: 111 | Communication Skills HU/IS:101 | Islamic and Pakistan Studies-|

= Translation of the Hol
Se
Year 2 Course Subject Credit Hours

Course Subject Credit Hours No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr Arch:211 | Architectural Design - II

Arch:201 | Architectural Design - | Arch:212 Materials and Construction-II
Arch:207 | Structural Systems - Il Arch:213 History of Civilization - IV

Arch:203 History of Civilization - III Arch:214 Architectural Graphics-Ill

Arch:204 _| Architectural Graphics - II Arch:216 Environmental Control-ll
Arch:206 Environmental Control - | Arch:217 Computer Application in Architecture-|
Hu/IS-202 | Islamic & Pak Studies - II QT-201 Translation of the Holy Quran

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

Arch:301 _| Architectural Design-ll Arch:311 Architectural Design-lV
Arch:302 _ | Building Services Arch:312 | Architectural Working Drawings
Arch:303 | Environmental Psychology Arch:313 Theory of Architecture
Arch:306 Energy Efficient Architecture Arch:317 Interior Design

Arch:307 | Computer Application in Architecture —II QT-301 Translation of the Holy Quran

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

Arch:401__| Architectural Design-V Arch:411 Architectural Design-VI

Arch:403 | History, Theory & Criticism Arch:413 | Architecture in Pakistan

Arch:406 | Research & Report Writing Arch:417 | Conservation of Historic Buildings

Arch:407 _ | Landscape Design Arch:418 | Urban Design-ll

Arch:408 | Urban Design-! QT-401 Translation of the Holy Quran

Years Semester 10

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wlololrm|sto
o}m]|[rlolsala

 

alolwlolry|rlo
ofa}alwololala

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ofs|[rlolala

wlrmlolr}|alo
alol[rmlo}r|nio
ofm[s[rlolala

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of[e|[ry}[rio
rm] alo}s}oa
alrm|r}lolo
of=]s]r}oa

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RM] w]NV]rm}o
a} a;olola
alalr}[rto
O|N] oc] o}a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
Arch:501 Thesis Design-| 0 10 Arch:511__ | Thesis Design-ll 0 "1
Arch:502 _ | Project Management 2 1 Arch:512 _ | Professional Practice 2 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Arch:503 Elective-I 2 0 Arch:513 _ | Elective-ll 2 0
102 «

 

 

 


 

Dr. Obaidullah Nadeem Dr. Zareen Shahid

Prof. Dr. Rizwan Hameed Dr. Shaker Mahmood Mayo Dr. Humaira Tabassum
Dr. IjazAhmad
Dr.Amer Aziz

Prof. Dr. Shaker Mahmood Mayo Ms. Saima Rafiq

Dr. MuhammadAsim
Dr. Rizwan Hameed Dr. Atif Bilal Aslam

Introduction

The Department of City and Regional Planning (DCRP) is contributing to nation building through its graduates since 1962. It is an advanced planning
institution in Pakistan, offering top quality education to serve the nation. The Department attracts international students due to its inclusive and vibrant
environment. The teaching focuses on equipping the students with all essential skills to prepare them for higher education and ethical professional
practice. The faculty is highly educated with many members holding foreign qualifications. They actively conduct research to find innovative solutions to
plan and manage human settlements in a sustainable manner. The detail of the department and the faculty can be accessed through university weblink
https://crp.uet.edu.pk/.

The Department aspires to rise as one of the best and world-renowned centres of excellence in City and Regional Planning education, research, and
advisory services. In this contextit is worth mentioning that the B.Sc., M.Sc., and Ph.D. degrees offered by the Department are recognized and accredited 103

100 Years of Exc

 


pio eeepe Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

by the Higher Education Commission (HEC), Pakistan Council of Architects and Town Planners (PCATP), and Institute of Planners Pakistan (IPP). In
addition, the Department has long-established and time-honoured recognition by International Institutes of City and Regional Planning and the associated
professional bodies all over the world such as Asian Planning Schools Association (APSA). The graduates of this Department are also eligible to get
registered with international bodies of professional planners such as, American Planning Association, Royal Town Planning Institute, International Society
of City and Regional Planners etc. This has also enabled several of our graduates to work as city planning and development management experts in
various countries of the developed and developing world.

Courses of Study
The Department offers following courses of studies:
a) B.Sc. City and Regional Planning (CRP)

b) M.Sc./M.Phill City and Regional Planning (CRP)

c) M.Sc. Community Development and Environmental Management (CDEM)
d) M.Sc. Disaster Management (DM)

e) Ph.D. City & Regional Planning (CRP)

B.Sc. City & Regional Planning Course

The curriculum for the eight semesters of B.Sc. course in City & Regional Planning is designed to produce professionals who can serve as development
managers of our urban and rural areas. Several new courses are introduced, considering the market demands, entrepreneurial skills, and cutting edge
technologies.

City and Regional Planning is an interdisciplinary field which deals with the social, economic, and physical aspects of the society and the built
environment. Accordingly, the department offers related subjects such as Active Citizenship and Development Planning, Sociology, Entrepreneurship,
Finance Planning, Development Economics, Climate Change Adaptation, Disaster Management, Urban Regeneration and Conservation, Master
Planning, Estate Management, Transportation Planning, Housing Development Planning and Urban Design. Moreover the students are equipped with
Related software techniques including ArcGIS, AutoCAD, SPSS, Sketchup, 3D Max, Photoshop, Primavera, EPANET, HCS, and TransCAD. Along with
these teaching communication skills, survey planning and dealing with people is a crucial part of the training in the department. Therefore, the graduates of
this Departmentare trained not only in planning and engineering subjects but also in management and social sciences.

Practical Work
Cities and regions are the real field laboratories for Town Planners and proper functioning of urban planning contribute towards better life standards.
Therefore, practical work is included in the course work of four years to train students to deal with real world planningissues.

The assignments consist of data collection from different institutions and general public, mathematical and theoretical analysis, and preparation of policies
and plans for solutions. Notable practical works include preparation of Master Plans, Housing Scheme Planning and Development, Transportation Plans,
Urban Regeneration and Conservation Planning, Environmental Planning, Urban Design, Planning for New Towns, Industrial Estate Planning, and
Landscape Design and. These also involve extensive use of spatial and planning data analysis softwares. Overall, the students are equipped with
necessary analytical and presentation skills demanded by the public and private sector employers.

Opportunities for Field Knowledge

In order to enable our students to understand complexities of human settlements and strike a balance between the environment and development,
academia and field experts from technologically advanced countries like Germany, England and the New Zealand etc. are invited to deliver extension
lectures.

Moreover, seasoned Town Planners and allied professionals from various Government departments and private consultancies are also invited to deliver

104

100 Years of Exc

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

guest lectures both at campus as well as online. The Department also arrange 6-8 weeks internship for 3° and final year undergraduates to gain hands-on
practice in the field of town planning and become viable and experienced job applicants when seeking employment after graduation.

Future of CRP Graduates
During the recent years, City and Regional Planning has emerged as a popular discipline and a profession with very high employment rate. Keeping in
view the growing demand of our graduates in Pakistan and abroad, the university has increased the number of seats allocated for its undergraduate
rear Some of the recruiting agencies in the government sector include:

Universities offering City & Regional Planning programs

Planning Commission of Pakistan

Ministry of Housing, Environment and Urban Affairs

The Urban Unit, Punjab & KP

Punjab Housing and Town Planning Agency

DevelopmentAuthorities (LDA, CDA, MDA, GDA, KDA, GDA, SDA, RDAand the like)

Metropolitan/Municip| Corporations, and Tehsil Councils

Federal Government Employees Housing Authority

Armed Forces (MES and Disgn Directorates)

Civil Aviation Authority

Pakistan Government Employees Housing Authority

NDMA, PDMAs and Punjab Emergency Services

Furthermore, there are numerous employment opportunities in the local, national and international NGO's and private planning consultancy firms. Our
graduates are also extensively working in the real estate sector with the private entities such as Graana.com, Behria Town, DHAs, and other land
developers. Thus, the City & Regional Planning professionals hold key portfolios at the local, provincial, and national level institutions.

Learning Space Facilitation At The Department

The department comprises of all necessary facilities which include seminar hall, lecture theatre, drawing studio, computer lab, conference room, research
room and library.All the lecture rooms/ design studios are equipped with modern audio-visual aid such as interactive smart boards with ultra-short throw
multimedia projectors and public address systems. A state-of-the-art GIS laboratory is recently established with latest desktop computers having Core i7
processors to facilitate use of satellite imageries for spatial data analysis and planning. The computers are connected with a high speed server based local
network and internet facility. The laboratory is also equipped with modern scanning and printing facilities.

Library and Allied Facilities

The Department has a well-stocked library, with a wide range of latest books, international journals, reports, and other documents related with the field of
City & Regional Planning. The Departmental library was established with the assistance of the British Government. Several new books are added every
year. The Department has also got latest mapping/ planning and survey equipment such as global positioning systems and total station, digital
planimeters, pantographs, colour plotters, laser jet printers and scanners. In addition, the equipment like noise level meters for noise pollution studies,
spectro photometer for chemical testing of water and flue gas analyzer for automotive and industrial emissions testing are also available. The Department
has established state-of-the-art seminar and conference rooms. Both are air-conditioned and equipped with smart boards. Symposia and extension
lectures of world-renowned research scholars, professional planners and students’ discussion forums are frequently heldin these rooms.

105

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

 

 

 

 

Yaar’ B.Sc. City & Regional Planning Engineering
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr

 

CRP-101 | Introduction to City and Regional Planning
CRP-102 | Technical Drawing

HU-001 Functional English

CRP-103 | Computer Aided Design and Modeling
CE-101L | Elementary Surveying

MA-114 Applied Mathematics

CRP-104L | Mapping and Remote Sensing
CRP-105 History of Urban Planning
CRP-106L | Transportation Engineering
IS-101 Islamic and Pakistan Studies-I / Ethics and Pakistan studies-|
MA-141 Applied Statistics
CY-131/PHY 110] Environmental Chemistry | / Applied Physics*
QT-101 Translation of The Holy Quran - 1

 

 

 

 

 

wlwlolwlole
SO}=|Nlo|nlo

 

a} m] ow] ofrm] rm] =
SO} s}olo}]=fofy

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
CRP-201L | Environmental Planning and Management 3 1 CRP-206 | Sociology 2 0
CRP-202L | Architectural Design 1 2 CRP-207L | Housing and Urban Development 2 1
CRP-203 | Applied Geography 2 0 CRP-208L_| Transportation Planning 2 1
CRP-204 | Information Technology and Database Management 0 3 CRP-209L_| Introduction to GIS 1 1
HU-200 Technical Report Writing a 0 1S-201 Islamic and Pakistan Studies/Ethics and Pakistan Studies-ll} 3 0
CRP-205 | Development Economics 2 0 HU-111 Communication skills 0 4
PID-207 Workshop Practice (Model Making) 0 4 CRP-210L | Planning Surveys 1 2
QT-201 Translation of The Holy Quran - 2 1 0

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
EnE-308L —_| Environmental Engineering 3 1 CRP-309L | Research Methods 2 1
CRP-304 Planning Law 3 0 CRP-310L | Industrial Estate Planning and Design 1 1
CRP-305L _ | Urban Regeneration and Conservation 2 1 CRP-311L | Landscape Design 1 1
CRP-306L _| Planning of New Towns 2 2 CE-301L | Building Construction Technology 2 1
CRP-307L | GIS Analysis and Applications 1 4 CRP-313L | Urban Design 2 1
CRP-308 | Climate Change Adaptation and Disaster Management| 2 0 CRP-314 | Active Citizenship and Development Planning 2 0
QT-301 Translation of The Holy Quran - 3 1 0

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
CRP-401L | Master Planning - | 2 2 CRP-407 | Project-Il 0 3
MGT-402L | Finance Planning and Management 2 1 CRP-408L | Master Planning - II 1 2
CRP-403L | Project Planning and Management 1 1 CRP-409L | Estate Management 1 1
CRP-404L | Professional Planning Practice 1 2 CRP-410L | Land use and Building Control 2 1
CRP-405L_ | Rural Development Planning 2 0 CRP-411L | Regional Planning 2 1
CRP-406 | Project - | 0 3 MGT-413 | Entrepreneurship 3 0
106 QT-401 Translation of The Holy Quran - 4 1 0

 

 

 


 

Prof. Dr. Muhammad Rizwan Hameed Ms. Fariha Saeed Ms. Aisha Hameed

Ms. Asma Khalid Ms. Uroosa Naz
Dr. Salman Asghar Ms. Anum Shamshad
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Rizwan Hameed Ms. Mona Gulzar

Ms. NeyalishAman
Ms. Aiman Amjad

The Department of Product & Industrial Design was established in the year of 2006 with aim to generate professionals in the field of Product Design with
technological, managerial and entrepreneurial skills for emerging needs of the industry. The department provides standard Product Design education at
bachelor level and has commenced post graduate program in the year 2016. The offered courses equip students with skills and knowledge necessary not
only for industrial designing but also for the students who can pursue various choices of career after graduation; the graduates will be industrial / product
designers, design managers, entrepreneurial, designer for product manufactures and trading companies' product design consultancies.

Broadly speaking, the role of the product designer combines art, science and technology to create tangible three-dimensional goods.Master Program of
Product and Industrial Design involves the research and design of the whole range of consumer and capital products. These are as diverse as telephones
and transportation, kitchen appliances exhibition systems. Ideally, the industrial designer works as part of a multidisciplinary team involving engineering,
production and marketing.

107

100 Years of Excellence


pio eeepe Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

Inspiring Innovation, Delivering Success
The program is likely to be of interest to students who:
Have abilities, such as drawing and making that support design activity, as well as capability to work with technical information.
Have an interest in the way products and systems relate to people and societies.
Are interested in technology but want to develop their design creativity and wish to be involved in the whole product development process.
Are considering marketing but wish to develop new products as part of a marketing strategy
Seeking flexibility in their career path.

Product & Industrial Design Curriculum
The curriculum in Product & Industrial Design provides education in three-dimensional design for commercial and artistic production. The curriculum
combines industrial design courses with Art and Design foundation courses, Art History Courses, Design Electives, General Electives and General
Education Units required by the university.

The Bachelor of Product and Industrial Design (B.PID) is an innovative four years full-time undergraduate program of study. The Bachelor of Product and
Industrial Design may be awarded with honors based upon the quality of performance in the program and current Faculty regulations.

The Bachelor of Product Design provides the skills for a career as a professional product designer. It brings together the creative 3D design culture of
design, advanced technologies of engineering and the entrepreneurial spirit of business. The programme is designed to appeal to the aspirations of the
new generation of young multi-skilled and multi-talented creative entrepreneurial who seek a creative career.

Career Opportunities
The graduate in PID can work as Product & Industrial Designers, graphic designers, packaging designers, project coordinators in Architecture
(Construction) Product designers, product merchandisers, art installation designers and design managers.

Laboratories
The department has following well equipped labs to meet the academic needs of the students and teachers:

Computer Lab

Digital Graphics Lab
Ceramics/ WoodLab
Postgraduate Research Lab

 

Besides, student use the labs in different subjects of engineering discipline for respective experiments.

|
1
| :
nail

 

100 Years of Exc


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Year 4 ee © S- Product & Industrial Design Engineering

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

 

 

 

 

 

 

PID: 101 Fundamentals of Design - |
PID: 102L | Visual Communication - |

PID: 103 | Materials and Technology - |

PID: 106 _| History of Creative Arts and Design - |
PID: 105 Introduction to Computers

IS: 101 Islamic and Pakistan Studies - | MA: 114 Applied Mathematics
HU-111L__ | Communication Skills QT:101 Translation of Holy Quran

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

PID: 201 | Product Design-I PID: 211 | Product Design-lI

PID: 202 | Ergonomics IME: 253 | Work Study & Ergonomics.

PID: 203 | Advance Materials & Science PID: 217L | Advance Computer Aided Design
PID: 206 | History of Creative Art & Design-ll PID: 216 | Aesthetics

PID: 205L__| Computer Aided Design MA: 244 | Probability and Statistics
HU-221 Technical Writing & Presentation Skills IS: 201 Islamic and Pakistan Studies -ll

QT:201 Translation of Holy Quran

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

PID:301 Product Design-lll PID:311 Product Design-lV

PID:302L _| 3D-Modeling PID:313 | Graphic Design

PID:303 Photography PID:314 Research Methodology

PID:304 History of Creative Art & Design-lll PID:315 Introduction to Management

PID:305L | Computer Modeling & Rendering ME-229 Mechanics of Materials and Machine Design
PHY:301 Packaging Physics QT:301 Translation of Holy Quran

PID: 111 Fundamentals of Design -ll
PID: 112L | Technical Drawing

PID: 113 Materials and Technology — II
PID: 115L | Digital Graphics

ME: 100L | Workshop Practice

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sfw}]s}]a{[ylo|[r
wloly|r[rlala
a}wlololrmlo}r
CS] oO] wlafrm|ola

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wl o]a]rm}r}rn
ofalr|ri[ria

 

alwlrm|rm}o}rm}rm
Sclolslosatria

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rlalofrtala
alola}r}r}n
cloly|[Ny]ala

rlo]|rm}s}olny

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
PID:401 | Product Design-V 1 6 PID:411 Final Year Project -ll 0 24
PID:402 Final Year Project -I 0 12 PID:412 Professional Practice 2 2
Electives:

1. Visual Communication Design (video production)
2. Advanced Ceramics —_ 3. Furniture Design

 

 

PIDA08 4. Advertisement Design (print media) 2 2
5. Product Development & Manufacturing
6. Interior Design
MGT-413 | Entrepreneurship 3
QT:401 Translation of Holy Quran 1

 

 

 

 

 

109

 

 


Faculty of
Natural Sciences, Humanities
& Islamic Studies


 


 

Prof. Dr. Farhat Yasmeen

Prof. Dr. Muhammad Shahid Rafqiue Dr. Abdul Ghaffar
Ms. Hina Saleem
[ Dr. Humayun Ajaz Dr. Zahoor Ahmad
Prof. Dr. Syeda Rubina Gilani Dr. Arjumand Iqbal Durrani Dr. Ashi Rashid

Dr. Aisha Munawar

Prof. Dr. Syeda Rubina Gilani

The history of Department of Chemistry is as old as 1923. It was known as “Science Department’ in the days of Maclagan Engineering College Lahore,
which offered the subjects of Chemistry, Physics and Mathematics to Engineering disciplines. However, an independent Department of Chemistry was
established in 1961, when Maclagan College of Engineering was upgraded to University, presently University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore. It
was a supporting department for teaching applied chemistry courses to engineering disciplines until 1994.

The Department started M.Sc. Applied Chemistry program in 1995. While the M.Phil. program in Chemistry was started in 2001. The Ph.D. program was
started in 2004. In 2020, BS Chemistry program started with almost 35 in firstintake.

The Department is also offering applied chemistry courses to various Engineering disciplines that include Electrical, Chemical, Polymer, Metallurgical,

112

100 Years of Excellence


- Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 - muster

Mining, Industrial and Manufacturing, Geological and Petroleum & Gas Engineering.

There are several well-equipped laboratories having a number of modern instruments like UV-Visible Spectrophotometer, FTIR, Atomic Absorption
Spectrophotometer, GC-FID, GC-FPD, GC-MS, HPLC-UV, High Temperature Furnaces, Polarimeters, Potentiometer, EDAC, Incubator Shaker, High
Speed Control Centrifuge, Low Temperature Incubators Vacuum Pumps, Kjehidahl Apparatus, Soxhlet Apparatus, Schilink Lines, some Electrochemical
Instruments, Fluorescence Spectrophotometer (cary eclipse), ATR (cary 630 FTIR), Refractometer (Abbemat 500), Polarimeter (MCP 500), Potentiostat,
Ultra-Low Temperature Freezer (U360 Innova), Thermo Scientific Barnstead Smart 2 Pure water (2 No.), Eliza Reader Laminar Flow Hoods, Cool
Incubators, Dry Incubators, Oven, Freezer, Orbital Shaker, Spectrophotometer, Antibacterial and Antifungal facility, Colony Counter etc. In addition, there
is well-stocked Library and |.T, Computer Laboratory to facilitate the Students.

ye .

 

113

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

 

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wear B.Sr. Chemisty
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
HU-111 Communication Skills 4 HU-221 Technical Writing and Presentation Skills &
1S-104 Islamic Studies/Pak studies | 3 IS-204 Islamic Studies/Pak studies || 3
Math-101__| Calculus | 3 Math-105 _| Statistics 3
CS-101L | Computing Fundamentals 1 CY-141 Biochemistry and Biotechnology 3
Phys-101__| Mechanics 3 MGT-100 _| Introduction to Business 3
Phys-101L_| Mechanics Lab 1 cy-111 Introduction to Analytical Chemistry 2
Cy- 151 Introduction to Physical Chemistry 2 CY-111L Introduction to Analytical Chemistry Lab 1
CY-151L __| Introduction to Physical Chemistry Lab 1
CY-121 Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry 2
QT-101 Translation of the Holy Qur’an-| 4
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
Math-203 & 203L| Scientific Programming 2 1 CY-253 _| Physical Chemistry - II 2 1
CY-252 Physical Chemistry — | 2 1 CY-213 _| Analytical Chemistry II 2 1
CY-222 Inorganic Chemistry - | 2 1 CY-223 _| Inorganic Chemistry-II 2 1
CY-261 Organic Chemistry-I 2 1 CY-262 | Organic Chemistry-ll 2 1
CyY-201 Environmental Sciences 3 0 QT-201 Translation of the Holy Qur’an-ll 4
CY-212 Analytical Chemistry 1 2 1 CY-204 | Energy Resources of Pakistan and its Management 2
Math-205 | Ordinary Differential Equations 3
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
CY-314 Analytical Chemistry-III 3 1 CY-315/CY-331| Analytical Chemistry-IV/ Applied Chemistry a 1
CY-324 Inorganic Chemistry-IIl 3 1 CY-325 Inorganic Chemistry-IV 3 1
CY-363 Organic Chemistry-IIl 3 1 CY-364 Organic Chemistry-IV 3 1
CY-354 Physical Chemistry-IIl 3 1 CY-355 Physical Chemistry-IV 3 1
QT-301 Translation of the Holy Qur'an-lll 1 CY-301 Workplace hazardous materials information 2
HU-204 Foreign Languages (Any) 1
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) th | Pr No, (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
CY-4—-* Advanced Paper | 3 CyY-4--* Advanced Paper IV 3
Cy-4--* Advanced Paper II 3 Cy-4--* Advanced Paper V 3
Cy-4--* Experimental Methods 3 CyY-4--* Experimental Methods 3
CY-491 Scientific Report Writing 3 Cy-4--* Elective Course (Other than the field of specialization) | __3
QT-401 Translation of the Holy Qur'an-IV 1 Cy-492 Research Project/Social Services and Report Writing / 3
CY-492 Research Project/Intemship and Report Writing Additional Paper) | 3 3 Additional Paper (3 credit)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Three Courses from the field of specialization (Two Theory and one Experimental

Methods)
CY-491 Scientific Report Writing (Common to all) (3 Cr Hrs.)

CY- 492 Research Project/Internship and Report Writing /Additional Paper (3 credit) Total

(12 credit hours + 3 credit hour research = 15) 600 Marks

100 Yea

“Three Courses from the field of specialization (Two theory and one experimental) (9 Cr

Hrs.)

Elective Course | (Other than the field of specialization (3 Cr Hrs.)
CY- 492 Research Project/Internship and Report Writing /Additional Paper (3 credit) Total
(12 Credit hrs. + 3 Crhrs. Research) 600 Marks

Total Credit hrs. 15isf-Total Credit Hours 135

 

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

 

Final Year Subject Specialization

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Final Year Specialization CY-472 Polymer Blends and Composites
Course No. Specialization Subjects CY-473 Degradable Polymeric Materials
182 Inorganic and Analytical Chemistry CY-474 Polymer Analysis and Characterization
3,788 Industrial, Environmental and Polymer Chemistry Cy-475 Functional Polymeric Materials
480 Biochemistry and Microbiology CY-476 Experimental Methods in Polymer Chemistry
5 P hysical and Elecrochemisty <
6 Organic Chemistry (Organic, Food and Biochemistry) Course|NO: Specialization Subjects
CY-461 Organic Spectroscopy

Course No. Specialization Subjects CY-462 Heterocyclic and Organometallic Compounds
CY-411 Spectroscopic Techniques CY-463 Reaction Mechanism And Reactive Intermediates
CY-412 Thermal Analysis CY-464 Natural Products
CY-413 Electroanalytical Techniques CY-465 Advance Food Chemistry and Technology
CY-414 Statistical Data Handling and Spreadsheets CY-466 Food Laws and Regulations
CY-415 Vacuum Techniques In Analytical Chemistry CY-467 Food Technology in Dairy
CY-416 Physicochemical Methods of Analysis CY-468 Experimental Methods in Organic Chemistry
CY-418 Experimental Methods in Analytical Chemistry | CY-469 Experimental Methods in Food Chemistry
CY-419 Experimental Methods in Analytical Chemistry II CY-401 Essentials of Microbiology
CY-421 Introduction to Organometallic Chemistry CY-402 Introduction to Microbiology
CY-422 Inorganic Catalysis CY-403 Chemical Microbiology
CY-423 Principles of Bioinorganic Chemistry CY-441 Structural Biochemistry
CY-424 Inorganic Chemistry of Main Group Elements CY-442 Biochemistry of Metabolism
CY-425 Special Topics in Inorganic Chemistry CY-443 Informational Macromolecules
CY-426 Experimental Methods in Inorganic Chemistry | Cy-444 Bioenergetics
CY-427 Experimental Methods in Inorganic Chemistry I] CY-445 Nutritional Biochemistry

CY-446 Advance Protein Chemistry
Course No. Specialization Subjects GVA Enzymes and Enzymology

 

 

CY-448 Metabolism and Related Diseases
CY-449 Experimental Methods in Biochemistry
CY-404 Experimental Methods in Microbiology

 

CY-431 Organic Based Industries
CY-432 Agro Based Industries and Pollution Control
CY-433 Industrial Process Projects of Applied

CY-434 Chemistry Experimental eR eae ela a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CY-435 Methods in Industrial Chemistry | Course No. Specialization Subjects
CY-436 Experimental Methods in Industrial Chemistry II CY-451 Solid State and Material Chemistry

CY-481 Fundamentals of Environmental Chemistry CY-452 Thermodynamics

CY-482 Environmental Toxicology CY-453 Electrochemistry and Clean Energy

CY-483 Green Chemistry CY-454 Applied Electrochemistry

CY-484 Environmental Chemistry CY-455 Electro-Kinetics Phenomenon

CY-485 Environmental Law CY-456 Electrochemical Industrial Processes

CY-486 Projects of energy resources of Pakistan and its management CY-457 Quantum Chemistry

CY-487 Experimental Methods in Environmental Chemistry CY-458 Physical and Electrochemistry Chemistry Lab |
CY-471 Polymer Chemistry CY-459 Physical and Electrochemistry Chemistry Lab II

115

 

 


"1

Prof. Dr. Muhammad Shahid Rafique Dr. Sabir Hussain

Dr. QasimAliCh.

airmar Dr. Muhammad Irfan Qadir
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Mushtaq

Profes Mr. Muhammad Naeem
Dr. Muhammad Mushtaq Dr. Shafique-ur-Rahman
Dr. Asma Rashid Butt Dr. SamiaAzhar

Ms. Rubina Fayyaz

Ms. Saima Nazir

Dr. Anjum Pervaiz

 

Dr. Mustafa Habib

Ms. Samina Saeed Khan
Dr. KashifAli Khan

Dr. Saadia Farid

Dr. ShamailaSamreen

Dr. Muhammad Shabbir

Dr. Taimoor Iqbal

Mr. Abdur Rehman Khan Salari
Dr. Ali Ovais

The Department of Mathematics is one of the oldest departments of the University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore. It was established in 1961. The
Department of Mathematics not only runs its own programs like BS in Mathematics, M. Phil in Applied Mathematics and Ph.D. in Mathematics, but also
provides its services to all disciplines of engineering and technology, and business to make their students capable enough to apply the tools of
Mathematics for solving the problems occurring in their respective areas of study. The teaching faculty feels the responsibility to impart the knowledge of
Mathematics with innovation so that the students might be able to understand and give solutions to the complex engineering, science and business

6 problems of this modern era.

100 Years of Exc

 


 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 muster

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Establish the base for lifelong education by creating essential concepts and equipping the student with necessary techniques, need to start
acarrier of research, development, teaching or applications involving mathematics.
PEO-02: Enable them to use the equations of Mathematics describing general laws applying, mainly, inductive logic.
PEO-03: Modeling of Engineering Problems from the Fundamental Laws to create practical system.
PEO-04: Graduates will be capable to critically analyze mathematical problems, taking them from various stages of concept building with problem-
solving skills.

Research Extension & Advisory Services

Research is an essential component of the academic pursuits of the faculty members and the postgraduate students. The work of the faculty is published
in national and international journals. The Department has a computer laboratory equipped with personal computers along with the internet facility. The
Department also offers Mechanics Lab at undergraduate level to various engineering departments. This not only improves the practical training of the
students but also develops the skill of viva voce, etc.

   

2 MZ
100 Years of Excellen

 
 

117

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

Year B.Sc. Mathematics

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
MATH-101 Calculus-| 3 MATH-104 | Calculus II 3 0
MATH-102 _ | Elements of Set Theory and Mathematical Logic 3 MATH-105 _ | Statistics 3 0
MATH-103 __ | Introduction to Computers 3 MATH-106 | Software Packages 3 0
HU-111 Communication Skills 1 CY-151 & 151 | Introduction to Physical Chemistry 2 1
IS-101 Islamic and Pakistan Studies-I 3 LHU-221 Technical Writing and Presentation Skills 3 0
PHYS-101 &101| Mechanics 3 1 Is-201 Islamic and Pakistan Studies II 3 0
LQT-101 Translation of the Holy Qur'an-| 4
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
MATH-201 Calculus Ill 3 0 MATH-205 _| Ordinary Differential Equations 3 0
MATH-203 & 203L} Scientific Programming 2 1 MATH-206__| Discrete Mathematics 3 0
MATH-204 Linear Algebra 3 0 MATH-211 | Operation Research-| 3 0
PHYS-201 & 201L| Waves and Oscillations 3 1 CY-111 & 111L| Introduction to Analytical Chemistry 2 1
MGT-100 Introduction to Business 3 0 PHYS-202 | Heat and Thermodynamics 3 0
HU-204 | Any Foreign Language 1 0
QT-201 Translation of the Holy Qur’an-II 1
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
MATH-301 | Real Analysis-I 3 0 MATH-307 | Classical Mechanics 3 0
MATH-302__| Vector and Tensor Analysis 3 0 MATH-308 | Partial Differential Equations 3 0
MATH-303 | Probability 3 0 MATH-309 | Complex Analysis 3 0
MATH-304 | Topology 3 0 MATH-310 | Differential Geometry 3 0
MATH-312 | Operation Research II 3 0 MATH-311 | Real Analysis-ll 3 0
MATH-305 | Modern Algebra-| 3 0 QT-301 Translation of the Holy Qur’an-Ill 1 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
MATH-400 | Number Theory 3 0 MATH-405 | Integral Equations 3 0
MATH-401 | Numerical Analysis 3 0 MATH-441 | Functional Analysis 3 0
MATH-403 | Mathematical Physics 3 0 E:3 3 0
Electivve -1 3 0 E4 3 0
Elective -2 3 0 MATH-460 | Project 3 0
QT-401 Translation of the Holy Qur'an-IV 1 0

 

 

118

 


 

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 muster

* Elective Subjects (Pure Mathematics)
e MATH-442 Measure Theory e MATH-443 Algebraic Topology  MATH-444 Convex Analysis  MATH-445 Modern Algebra Il (Rings and Modules)
e MATH-446 Advanced Group Theory e MATH-447 Axiomatic Set Theory  MATH-448 Riemannian Geometry e MATH-449 Galois Theory

4th Year 7th Semester (Applied Mathematics) CH Cela Umum CA yen EEL)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course No. Subject Credit Hours Course No. Subject Credit Hours
MATH-401 Numerical Analysis 3 MATH-404 Fluid Mechanics-II 3
MATH-402 _ | Fluid Mechanics-! 3 MATH-405 _| Integral Equations 3
MATH-403 Mathematical Physics 3 Elective-3 3
Elective-1 3 Elective-4 3
Elective-2 S MATH-460. Project 3
QT-401 Translation of the Holy Qur'an-IV 4

 

 

 

 

* Elective Subjects (Applied Mathematics)

e MATH-406 Electromagnetism  MATH-407 Analytical Dynamics  MATH-408 Quantum Mechanics e MATH-409 General Relativity
e MATH-410 Special Relativity  MATH-411Elastic Theory

Course No. Subject Credit Hours Course No. Subject Credit Hours
MATH-401 Numerical Analysis 3 MATH-405 Integral Equations 3
MATH-403 | Mathematical Physics 3 MATH-412 | Numerical Solutions of Differential Equations
MATH-416 | Optimization Theory 3 Elective-3
Elective-1 3 Elective-4
Elective-2 3 MATH-460 Project
QT-401 Translation of the Holy Qur'an-IV

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a }wlololo

 

 

* Elective Subjects (Computational Mathematics)

 

 

e MATH-417 Mathematical Modeling and Simulation  MATH-418 Dynamical Systems e MATH-419 Mathematical Biology
e MATH-420 Computational Fluid Dynamics

 


 

[ Dr. Abdul Waheed Anwar
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Shahid Rafique irect
r r Prof. Dr. Muhammad Shahid Rafique
irmar Dr. Umber Kalsoom
Prof. Dr. Anwar Latif Dr. Usman llyas

Dr. Ishrat Mubeen Dildar Prof. Dr. Khurram Siraj
Pro ‘ Dr. Muneeb Irshad
Dr. Rehana Sharif Dr. Saba Majeed Gondal -ectur
Dr. Muhammad Iqbal Dr. Amina Afzal Dr. Khadija tul Kubra

Dr. Jaweria Zartaj Hashmi
sociate ess Dr. Saima Shaukat
Dr. Rashid Jalil Dr. Haamid Jamil
Dr. ShamailaShahzadi Dr. Sofia Siddique
Dr. Ibtsam Riaz

The Department offers the following Postgraduate programs and Undergraduate programs:
(I) Bachelor of Science Physics (4 Years Program)
(ii) M.Phil. in Applied Physics
120
100 Years of Excel

 


 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 muster

(iii) M.Phil. in Nano Science and Technology
(iv) Ph.D. Physics

The faculty is highly qualified and motivated including twenty (20) members with Ph.D. degrees. The interdisciplinary curriculum draws on faculty
expertise in many areas of Applied Physics and includes such courses as Laser Physics, Plasma Physics, Nanotechnology, Health & Medical Physics,
Photonics & Optoelectronics, Applied Optics, Applied Atomic & Nuclear Physics, Solid State Physics, Computer Science and its applications and
Electronics, etc.

The Department has produced 371 M.Phil. and 466 M.Sc. students so far, who are serving in different educational institutes like Lahore College for
Women University, G.C. University, Lahore, F.C. College University, PIEAS, etc. R & D Organizations like PAEC, NESCOM, OPTICS Lab. KANUPP etc.
and in the field of Medical Physics in Shaukat Knanum Hospital, INMOL etc. The Department has also produced 27 Ph.D. and 23 are pursuing their Ph.D
degrees. There are six well equipped Laboratories in the Department. The Research work is backed up by the state-of-the-artequipments where students
have the opportunity to perform experiments of advanced level with the special emphasis on the applied concepts of Physics.

The students who got admission in session 2020 are pursuing their BS Physics degree.

The Department has also two fully equipped Advanced Research Centres:
(i) Laser & Optronics Centre
This centre provides research facilities in lasers, laser material interactions, laser produced plasma, Optoelectronics and photonics, etc. The
main equipment includes high power femto-second Ti-Sapphire Laser, Nitrogen Laser, Nd: YAG Laser, Diode Lasers, Krf&XeC! Excimer Laser,
high resolution three stage optical microscope, heating furnace, Nanodiamond Fabrication Facility, Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Fabrication Facility
and much other equipment related to above mentioned fields.

(ii) Nanotechnologies Research Centre
The Nanotechnologies Research Centre (NRC) was established in 2008 in Department of Physics to focus on precision engineering or tailoring
of materials at nano scale. In addition to provide the nano scale research facilities, the NRC also has created programs to attract researchers
and to facilitate the scientists.

Nanotechnology Research Centre (NRC) has the following state-of-the-art laboratories
1. Nanofabrication
2. Diagnostic & Characterization

The labs are equipped with Atomic Force Microscope (AFM), Raman Spectrometer, AC Electrodeposition set up, DC Electrodeposition set up, Magnetic
FieldAnnealing System, Multifunctional Generator and Magnetic Stirrer with hot plate etc.

 

100 Years


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

ter B.Sc. Physios

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
PHYS-101 Mechanics 3 0 HU-221 Technical Writing and Presentation Skills 2 0
PHYS-101L__| Mechanics (Lab.) 1 0 IS- 201 Islamic And Pakistan Studies - || a 0
IS- 101 Islamic and Pakistan Studies- | 3 0 MATH-104 _ | Calculus-ll 3 0
MATH-101__| Calculus-| 3 0 PHYS-102 _| Electricity and Magnetism 2 1
CS - 104 Computing Fundamentals 2 0 PHYS-102L _| Electricity and Magnetism (Lab.) 3 0
CS-101L | Computing Fundamentals (Lab.) 1 0 CY- 111 Introduction to Analytical Chemistry 3 0
Cy- 151 Introduction To Physical Chemistry 2 0 CY- 111 Introduction to Analytical Chemistry (lab.)
CY- 151L Introduction To Physical Chemistry (Lab.) 1 0 LQT-101 Translation of the Holy Quran-1
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
PHYS-201 Waves & oscillations 3 0 HU-111 Communication Skill 3 0
PHYS-201L _| Waves & oscillations (lab.) 1 0 PHYS-204 _| Selectronics - 3 0
PHYS-202 Heat & thermodynamics 3 0 PHYS-204L | Electronics (Lab.) 3 0
MGT-100 Introducation to business 3 0 PHYS-205 _| Physical and Geomtrical Optics 2 1
PHYS-203 Solid state physics i 3 0 MATH-205 _| Ordinary Differential Equations 3 0
MATH-204 Linear algebra 3 0 PHYS-206 _| Classical Mechanics 1 0
HU-204 Foreign language (any) 1 0 MGT-102 | Sociology 1
QT-201 Quran-I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours

No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
PHYS-311__| Concepts of Modern Physics 3 0 PHYS-321 Mathematical Methods of Physics-Il 3 0
PHYS-311L_| Modern Physics (lab.) 3 0 PHYS-322 _| Nuclear Physics-Il 3 0
PHYS-312_| Mathematical Methods of Physics-| 3 0 PHYS-323 __| Electrodynamics-l| 3 0
PHYS-313 _| Nuclear Physics-I 3 0 PHYS-324 _| Quantum Mechanics-ll 3 0
PHYS-314 _| Electrodynamics-| 3 0 PHYS-325 _| Electronics -II 3 0
PHYS-315 _| Quantum Mechanics-I 3 0 MGT-211 Principles of Management 3 0

 

QT-301 Translation of the Holy Quran-lll

 

Semester 8

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year 4 Course Subject Credit Hours
Course Subject Credit Hours No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
No. (Pre-requisites) Th_ [Pr PHYS-446 _| Solid State Physics-Il 3 0
PHYS-441 _| Statistical Methods in Physics 3 0 PHYS-447 | Health and Medical Physics 3 0
PHYS-442 | Lasers Physics PHYS-448 _| Plasma Physics 3 0
PHYS-442L | Lasers & Optics (lab.) QT-401 Translation of the Holy Quran-IV 1 0

 

 

PHYS-443 _| Thermal and Statistical Physics
PHYS-444 | Computational Physics
PHYS-445 | Semiconductor Optoelectronics

 

PHYS-492L __ Atmospheric Science and Meteorology (lab.)/Project (Elective-Il)
OR

 

 

 

 

wo] woo} loo
ololololo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

s B PHYS-493 _| Physics at Nanoscale (Elective-Ill)
PHYS-493L__| Physics at Nanoscale (lab.) / Project (Elective-Il!)
Course No. Subject (Pre-requisites) OR
PHYS-491 Advanced Electronics (Elective-l) PHYS-494 | Quantum Plasmas (Elective-IV).
PHYS-491L__| Advanced Electronics (lab). / Project (Elective-l) PHYS-494L | Quantum Plasmas (lab.) / Project (Elective-IV).
OR OR
122 PHYS-492 | Atmospheric Science and Meteorology (Elective-Il) PHYS-500 _| Thesis (Elective-V)

 

 

 

100 Yea

 


Prof. Dr. Muhamma Shahid Rafique Ms. Alia Naushahi Ms. Sadia Khan

Ms. Mehvish Riaz Ms. Saida Usman Khan
Ch 1 Ms. Sadia Gondal Ms. Sadaf Qureshi
Ms. Amna Niazi Ms. Sara Khan

Ms. Hina Samar

The general objective of the courses in the Department of Humanities and Management Sciences is to groom the students and broaden their perceptions
according to the dictates of modern times. The Department offers courses such as Communication Skills, Functional English, Report Writing, Industrial
and Engineering Economics for Planners and other management subjects. Since the engineers are responsible members of commercial enterprises and
technical associations of a relatively high caliber, these disciplines help them to perform better in their job assignments and become high achievers in their
respective fields.

English being the medium of instruction for all technical and scientific disciplines in Pakistan, the Department offers courses in Technical English and
Technical Report Writing. The Department also offers a course entitled Ethics and Pakistan Studies, especially designed for Non-Muslim students, who
take itup in lieu ofa compulsory course thatis Islamic and Pakistan Studies. Short courses in Spoken English are also taught specially in summer.

 

123

 

 


“www.uet.edu.pk

3

a
a

© 6,8
— ” “7

 

De mVR ANN tN Olean ts) a NUOme RRC] P)L mts)

Dean Associate Professors Dr. Muhammad Nadeem Shah
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Shahid Rafique Dr. Atiq ur Rahman Ms. Gul SariaAshraf

Dr. Tanveer Qasim
Chairman/ Professor Assistant Professors Dr. Hafiz Qudratullah
Dr. Hafiz Muhammad Shahbaz Dr. Hafiz Zahid Latif

The curricula in the University include compulsory and optional subjects. Islamic & Pakistan studies are included in the compulsory subjects. The
underlying purpose of teaching this subject to the students of engineering disciplines is to impress upon them the richness of Islamic culture, heritage and
civilization and the role played by Islamic ideology in guiding the Muslims of the sub-continent towards their most cherished goal of an independent home
land, Pakistan. After inculcating in them the Cultural, Social, Economic, Political and historical aspects of Islamic civilization, the students would be able to
protect and promote Islam, not only as a religion but as a system in Pakistan and in the world as well. For the realization of these objectives, the Islamic
Studies was introduced in the University as an optional subject in 1961. In the subsequent years, due to its importance this subject was made compulsory
for all the Muslim students and its scope was progressively enlarged. Now the Department teaches Islamic Studies to all undergraduate programmes. In
1982 the Government of Pakistan prescribed Pakistan Studies as an essential component of the syllabi at all levels of education. Since then the
Department is teaching this subject also. The University welcomed the idea of the Governor of Punjab to teach Quranic translation to the students of
bachelor's degree programs. So the subject “Translation of the Holy Qur'an”, one credit hour course per year, is being taught to the undergraduate
students since 2020. The Department has a computer lab and a library rich with high quality research books. In addition to all these activities, some faculty
members of the Department have been delivering Friday Sermon in Jami'Mosque UET.

 

iG


NSntr Oi FEMS ass AND Test

Dean
Prof. Muhammad Shahid Rafique

Director
Dr. Muhammad Nasir Malik

Assistant Professors
Dr. Abdul Aziz Khan Niazi
Dr. Amir Ikram

Dr. Bilal Aziz

Dr. Farah Samreen

Introduction

Dr. Farman Afzal

Dr. Kanwal Iqbal Khan

Dr. Muhammad Shoaib Farooq
Dr. Naeem Akhtar

Lecturers
AeishaAltaf

Aftab Shoukat
Farid Pervez Shami
Maria Khan
Maryam Farooq

 

Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq
Quratulain Akhtar
Rabia Naseem
Rizwana Hameed
Saad Mahmood
Sadaf Razzaq
Safia Kanwal
Samreen Malik
Sara Kanwal
Zarmeena Malik
Zunaira Iftikhar

Adynamic and ever-changing business environment creates a strong demand for management professionals to perform exceptionally through proactive
and informed decisions. For organizations to meet this emerging demand, the University of Engineering and Technology (UET), Lahore established the
Institute of Business and Management (IB&M) in 2009, which aligns with the UET's long-held tradition of innovation, professional excellence and industry-
oriented education. IB&M provides a combination of robust curriculum, highly qualified faculty with remarkable research contribution, well-equipped
business school premises, and a myriad of student support services that synergize into a memorable and rewarding learning experience.

100 Years of Exc

 


Spies de etpe - Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 -

Degr
The Institute offers the following undergraduate and graduate degree programs.

 

 

 

(Hons)
b) BBIT (Hons)

MBA(30 Cr. Hrs. For Business Bachelors)
MBA(60 Cr. Hrs. For Non-Business Bachelors)
Executive MBA

MS Management

22on

Graduate programs are offered in morning and evening/weekend timings.
For program timings, referto the admission advertisement.

 

IB&M has always relied on technology-intensive methods for teaching and learning. At IB&M, a state-of-the-art computer laboratory provides a
vibrant and high-tech environment that caters to the learning needs of our students.

The library at IB&M offers a wide array of advanced educational services. It is equipped with over 6,000 books related to curricula and general
knowledge and periodic journals to promote scholarly interests and research activities.

IB&M organizes different demand-driven activities, such as training programs, international conferences, seminars, workshops, business idea
competitions, industrial tours and recreational trips. The blend of curricular and extra-curricular activities enables the students to perform extra-
ordinarily in their professional and personal lives. The graduates of IB&M are making their mark in many industries across the globe.

 

 


Faisalabad Campus


 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Campus Coordinator
Prof. Dr. Syed Waqas Ahmad

Faisalabad, the Manchester of Pakistan contributing major portion of Pakistan's GDP holds a campus of University of Engineering and Technology (UET)
Lahore since 2004. The reason of choosing Faisalabad city for establishing a campus of UET was Faisalabad being third largest metropolis and a major
industrial centre in the heart of Pakistan.

Healthy academic environment with highly qualified faculty members, state-of-the-art laboratories, dedicated academic and administrative staff; all add to
the production of competent and professional engineers at the campus.
Other than many industries, Faisalabad is renowned for its textile industry. There was no department offering degree in the field of Textile at UET. To cope
up with this, Department of Textile Engineering and Technology was established at Faisalabad. Other than Textile, the campus has the following
departments:
+ Departmentof Electrical, Electronics and Communication Engineering
Department of Mechatronics and Control Engineering
Department of Chemical and Polymer Engineering
Department of Textile Engineering
Department of Humanities, Basic Sciences and Islamic Studies

Following undergraduate degrees are offered in the stated departments:
) B.Sc. Electrical Engineering

b) B.Sc. Mechatronics and Control Engineering

c) B.Sc. Chemical Engineering

d) B.Sc. Textile Engineering

e) B.S. Environmental Sciences

Department of Electrical, Electronics and Communication Engineering

Chairman Dr. Muhammad Nasir Ms. Mariam Mughees
Dr. MuhammadAkram Dr. Aashir Waleed Mr. Waseem Arshad
Mr. Rameez Javed

Associate Professors Lecturers Mr. Azeem Iqbal
Dr. MuhammadAkram Dr. Yasir Jamal Mr. Ali Raza

Mr. Muhammad Ahsan ul Haq Mr.M.AliRaza
Assistant Professors Mr. Habibullah Manzoor Ms. Munazza Sadaf
Dr. Faizan Dastgeer Mr. Zain Shabbir

Introduction

The advancing theoretical and practical research in the field of electrical engineering has called for the production of highly competent engineers. The
Department of electrical engineering at Faisalabad campus offers its students mature academic facilities so that they can compete with the world's pace of
advancement. The first two years of study comprise of basic electrical engineering courses along with the courses from basic sciences. The third year
offers core electrical engineering courses that help students to make up their choice for fourth year where they have the liberty to adopt between advance
courses of Power, Electronics and Communications.

129

100 Years of Excellence


soeuelelue Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

 

Courses of Study
The Department offers:
a) B.Sc. Electrical Engineering
b) M.Sc. Electrical Engineering
The Department follows the Mission and PEOs of the Electrical Engineering Department Lahore.

Laboratories
The following laboratory facilities are available at the Department
e = Electric Circuits e Semiconductor Devices

Control Systems
Digital logic Design

e Electric Machines e MicroProcessor Systems
e Antenna and MicroWave e Analog Electronics

e Digital Electronics e Communication Systems
e Power Electronics e — Electrical Instrumentation
e Power Systems e Physics

e

e

artment of Mechatronics and Control Engineering

 

Chairman Dr. Asif Ishfaque Mr. Zia ur Rehman

Prof. Dr. Hassan |jaz Dr. Imran Mehmood Mr. Umar Siddique Virk
Mr. Muhammad Umair

Assistant Professors Lecturers Mr. Waqas Arshad

Dr. Nasir Anmad Dr. Asim Ghaffar Mr. Hassan Mujtaba

Dr.Awais Hafeez Ms. Ammara Kanwal Mr. Saqib Zafar

Dr.Ahmad Ali Mr. M. Usman Mr. M. Imran

Dr. Hashim Iqbal Mr. S. M. Umar Mr. Saeed Ahmad

Dr. Muhammad Usman Mr. Abdullah Tahir Mr. M. Tanveer Riaz

Dr. Farhan Maqbool Mr. Dilruba Siddiq

Dr. Imran Ali Mr. Abdullah Tahir

Introduction

Mechatronics is amalgam of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering. The need of Mechatronics arose as a result of requirement of professionals in both
Mechanical and Electrical domains in industries as well as in research. The Department at Faisalabad campus equipped with state-of-the-art laboratories
fulfils the need of time. The Department offers complete understanding of Mechanical Devices in coordination with electrical devices so that the students
learn the rootand stem benefits of Mechatronics.

Courses of Study
The Department offers:
e@ B.Sc. Mechatronics and Control Engineering

Laboratories
e Embedded Systems e Instrumentation and Measurement

130

100 Years of Exc

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

e = Industrial Automation e Mechanics of Materials
e Simulation e Power Electronics

e Control Systems e Engineering Mechanics
e@ Thermodynamics

 

Department of Chemical and Polymer Engineering

Chairman Assistant Professors Lecturers

Prof. Dr. Syed Waqas Ahmad Dr. Muhammad Danish Ms. Iqra Saleem
Dr. Khalid Mehmood Ms. Saba Gul

Associate Professor Dr. Rabia Sharif Mr. Aiman Shabbir

Dr. Faisal Saleem Dr. Haji Ghulam Qutab Mr. Muhammad Imran
Dr. Faisal Saleem Mr. Muhammad Mudassir

Dr. Abdul Rehman
Introduction
Chemical industry requires highly qualified and competent professionals for its growth. The Department at Faisalabad campus with its highly qualified and
professionally trained faculty members maintains excellent repute of producing engineers with professional abilities. The Department holds well equipped
laboratories to coordinate the theoretical knowledge with practical skills in quite a successful fashion. The course of study starts with the first two years
focusing on the basics of Chemical Engineering. The third year holds the importance of backbone, where in depth knowledge of Chemical Engineering is
given to the students. The fourth year is specialization year in which students specialize in different fields of Chemical Engineering.

Courses of Study
The Department offers:
a) B.Sc. Chemical Engineering
b) M.Sc. Chemical Engineering
The Department follows the Mission and PEOs of the Chemical Engineering Department Lahore.

Laboratories
e Chemical Process Industries e Heat Transfer
e Fluid Flow e Environmental Engineering
e@ Thermodynamics e Mass Transfer
e Particle Technology e Energy Engineering
e Chemical Reactor Design e Chemistry
e Unit processes e Simultaneous Heat and Mass Transfer

tment of Textile Engineering

Chairman Assistant Professors Lecturers
Dr. Muhammad Mohsin Dr. Shaheen Sardar Ms. Sidra Ghaffar

Dr. Aamir Abbas Mr. Muhammad Ahsan
Associate Professors Dr. Usama Bin Humayoun Mr. Khurram Shehzad Akhtar
Dr. Muhammad Mohsin Ms. WardahAnam

Mr. Nasir Sarwar

131

100 Years of Excellence


pio eeepe Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

Course Offered
a) B.Sc. Textile Engineering
b) M.Sc. Textile and Materials Engineering
c) Ph.D. Textile Engineering

Introduction

The textile sector in Pakistan has an overwhelming impact on the economy, contributing 60% to the country's exports and 46% of the total industrial
production. This sector provides employment opportunities to 45% of the country's workforce. In today's highly competitive global environment, the textile
sector needs to upgrade its processes, machinery, supply chain, improve productivity, sustainability and maximize the value-addition for survival. It cannot
be thought of without competent professionals in the relative field. Faisalabad campus is privileged over other campuses of UET for holding a degree
awarding departmentin Textile Engineering field.

The course of study is composite and covers all four section of textile:
Spinning (Yarn Manufacturing) + Weaving (Fabric Manufacturing)
Wet Processing (Pre-treatment, Dyeing & Finishing) + Garment Manufacturing

The Department started offering B.S. Textile in 2013, M.Sc. Textile and Materials Engineering in 2020 and Ph.D. Textile Engineering in 2021 with highly
qualified faculty and well-equipped laboratories. There are more than 100 lab scale equipment installed at the Department of textile engineering in the

following labs.
Laboratories
+ — Mini Spinning Lab-complete range (Pakistan's first and unique lab)
Pilot Spinning Lab + Weaving Lab
Knitting Lab + — Pre-treatment, Dyeing & Finishing Lab
Wet Processing Research Lab + Textile Chemical Synthesis and Polymerization Lab
Testing Lab (Physical & Chemical) + — Scanning Electron Microscope Lab
Garment Manufacturing Lab - — Pattern Cutting Lab

Textile Recycling Lab

Mission
The mission of the Department of textile engineering is to prepare engineers capable of solving complex textile engineering problems, using strong
fundamental knowledge and modern ideas, thus serving the national industry while maintaining the international standards.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Graduates can develop and implement real-world applications making use of the fundamental knowledge and advanced ideas gained
during the textile engineering program.
PEO-02: Graduates can generate innovative and sustainable solutions to complex engineering problems contributing towards the global
competitiveness of the national textile industry.
PEO-03: Graduates are able to develop their careers professionally with due considerations to technological, socio-economical, environmental and
ethical challenges.

 

100 Years of Exc


 

 

 

 

 

 

www.uet.edu.pk
Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 p
Year 1 B.Sc. Textile Engineering
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

 

TEX-101 Textile Engineering Fundamentals
CY-105 Applied Chemistry-|

ME-102 Mechanical Engineering Fundamentals
CS-103 Computing Fundamentals

HU-104 Communication Skills

MA-105 Applied Mathematics-|

IS-101 Islamic and Pakistan Studies-|
TEX-102 Textile Raw Materials and Science

EE-199 Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering
MA-106 Applied Mathematics

CY-106 Applied Chemistry
ME-100L | Workshop Practice

QT-101 Translation of The Holy Qur'an-|

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

PHY-103 Applied Physics

TEX-202 Yarn Preparatory Processes
TEX-203 Weaving Preparatory Processes
TEX-204 Pre-treatment of Textiles

1S-201 Islamic and Pakistan Studies-l|
HU-205 Technical Writing

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wIr]ry]o]r [rm
clo}afjofa]=

 

B}o] rm] wlwlrm]o
of} =] a}ola}ato

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEX-205 _| Yarn Production Engineering

TEX-206 _| Dyestuff and Color Science

TEX-207 _ | Clothing Anthropometry and Pattern Construction
TEX-208 | Computer Application in Textile

QT-201 Translation of The Holy Qur'an-l|

 

 

 

 

 

alwlr}lolo
ofa]/-}-}—

 

 

 

wlolrm}rm}ro|rn
ofofs}sa}s}]—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
TEX-301 | Textile Testing and Quality Control 2 1 TEX-306 Advance Spinning techniques 3 1
TEX-302 | Weaving Mechanisms and Advancements 3 1 TEX-307 Knitting Operations 3 1
TEX-303 | Textile Dyeing and Printing 3 1 TEX-308 Textile Finishing 3 1
TEX-304 | Sewn Product Engineering 3 1 TEX-305 Technical Textiles and Nonwovens 3 0
MA-205 | Applied Statistics and Probability 3 0 MGT-318 Entrepreneurship and Management 2 0
QT-301 Translation of The Holy Qur'an-lll 1 0

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) th | Pr No, (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr

 

TEX-401 | Specialty Yarns 2 1 TEX-404 | Senior Design Project II

MGT-418 | Engineering Management 3 0 TEX-405 | Industrial Engineering in the Clothing Industry

TEX-403 | Senior Design Project | 0 3 MGT-415 | Environment, Health and Safety
3 1
3 0

 

 

 

TEX-406 | Clothing Quality Control QT-401 Translation of The Holy Qur'an-IV
HU-404 | Professional Ethics and Procurement TEX-402 | Fabric Structure and Design

 

wl] a}wo]wlo
a]olo]slo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

133

 


soeuelelue Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ————

The Departmentis working in close collaboration with the top Pakistani textile industry. The Department has developed anti-viral masks, PPEs, innovative
banana fabric and other range of innovative products and processes. The Department is the member of the Society of Dyers and Coloursit, UK. The
Department also won the only prize for Textile Processing Technologies at the 6", 7", 8" Invention to Innovation Summit 2017, 2018 and 2019. The
Department's students have won the second place at the EU mask competition 2020.

There is 100% job placement for the graduates of the Department and around 75% of the students receive the job offer before the graduation. Graduates
of the Department are currently working in some of the top mills of the country such as Nishat, Interloop, Crescent, Kamal, Master, Sapphire, CBL,
Sadaqat, Artistic, US Apparel, TT], US denim and Masood textile etc. Since 2018, every year the Department organizes three mega events of textile
(International Conference on Sustainable Textile, Pakistan region SDC-UK textile design competition for students & Top Pakistani Textile Brands Tribute).
Textile sustainability working group has also been announced at the 4" conference and more than 170 textile industry and stakeholders are already part of
this initiative.

Department of Humanities, Basic Sciences and Islamic Studies

 

Chairman Dr. Muhammad Aslam Dr. Sheeba Ghani
Dr. Sajjad Anmad Dr. Abdur Rehman
Dr. Ilyas Ali Lecturers
Associate Professor Dr. Faisal Nawaz Mr. Mohsin Sheraz
Dr. Sajjad Ahmad Dr. Arshi Khalid Ms. Saira Zahid
Mr. Kamran Shaheen
Assistant Professors Ms. Shazia Karim
Dr. Ghufrana Samin Dr. Muhammad Yasir

Introduction
The toanllemet of the establishment of the Departmentlies in the following points:
Besides being skillful and technically strong, an engineer must possess excellent communication skills in order to express his ideas.
Islamic studies being a major subject at undergraduate level all over the country.
Mathematics is the mother ofall sciences and engineering; a branch of science requires its students to be excellent at mathematics.
The basic sciences that hold the base of engineering disciplines. One can never think of an engineer without the knowledge of basics of Physics
and Chemistry.

Courses of Study
The Department offers:
B.S. Environmental Sciences

Common Facilities at the Campus

Computer Laboratories

Four computer laboratories equipped with modern computers and operating systems are available for the students of the Campus. A central network
connects with the systems and the staff of network administrator is available round the clock for monitoring and maintenance.

Library
Senior Librarian Mr. Mian Tahir Gohar
The library has an excellent collection of books related to engineering as well as literature. Technical encyclopedias, dictionaries, handbooks all add to the

 

100 Years of Exc


www.uet.edu.pk

 

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

value of the library at the campus. The books are opened for issuance by students and faculty. Access to the HEC digital library is also available for
downloading research papers and handbooks.

Book Bank

The book bank holds more than three thousand books available for the students of the campus. A student can issue as much as five books for the whole
semester. The strength of textbooks satisfactorily matches the strength of students of a particular semester so that maximum students get the benefit of
textbooks.

Hostels
The campus offers accommodation facility for the students domiciled other than Faisalabad. The hostel facility is provided on the basis of seniority and
academic record.

Resident Tutors
Dr. Yasir Jamal
Dr. Abdur Rehman

Transport
The campus has its own fleet of buses for the transportation of students living in Faisalabad. The fleet includes six buses. The fleet also serves for
industrial visits as well as visits to the main campus for different purposes.

Canteen
The students and staff are facilitated with a canteen on the top floor of the library building so that they may refresh themselves during break time. Strict
quality check is observed in this department.

Co-Curricular, Extra-Curricular and other Facilities

Several societies work under a staff advisor, who is a faculty member, for organizing co-curricular and extra-curricular events. The campus provides the
students plain grounds for sport activities. An annual sports activity is observed at the campus as well as students from other universities are welcomed to
participate in different sport events. Literary and cultural events add to the flavor of co-curricular activities; our students are also encouraged to participate
in the events held in other universities. A career development cell is also established whose prime job is to arrange training workshops and lectures by
professionals from the industry. This aids in the development of university-industry liaison; students learn from the experience of speakers and become
familiar with the environment of industries.

135

100 Years of Excellen


KSK Campus




Spi eer Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

Department of Electrical, Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering

 

Professor Dr. Bilal Wajid Ms. lfrahLiagat

Dr. Muhammad Kamran Dr. Umar Rashid Mr.FarhanAhmed Butt
Dr. Farrukh Arsalan Mr. Rizwan Khan

Associate Professor Dr. Haris Anwaar Ms. Isra Nazir

Dr. MuhammadaAli Mr. RafayChughtai Mr. Waqas Ahmad

Dr. Faheem Gohar Awan Mr. Bilal Anwar Mr. Atif Naveed

Dr. HifsaShahid Mr.Usman Hasan Mr. Muhammad Umair

DrAliRaza Mr. Syed Muhammad Furgan
Lecturer Mr. Ammar Naseer

Assistant Professor Mr. Fahad Ijaz Ms. Iqra Farhat

Dr.-Ing.Faroog Mukhtar Mr.SalimButt

The Department was inaugurated in 2007 as a mean to further enhance engineering developments in the region. Equipped with the most prestigious and
ambitious labs, an incredibly well equipped library, state-of-the-art equipment and the latest research material to enable the students to form a firm grip on
the leading technological and scientific innovations. The Department stands at the pinnacle of technological innovation and creativity designed to drive the
world further in this field. The Departmentis involved in developing cleaner, safer, more sustainable energy sources which will help bring a quantum leap to
the world. It also has a department library, a faculty room, a semester cell, industrial liaison office, a conference room, girl's common room, IEEE & IET
student sections. The Departmentis working in close collaboration with industries and Chamber of Commerce.

Mission
To generate electrical engineering professionals with knowledge, skills, ethics and innovation to contribute in socio-economic & environmental betterment
of society.

Program Educational Objectives PEOs
B.Sc. electrical engineering programs in the Department is designed to provide its graduates a solid educational foundation on which they can build
successful and sustainable careers in electrical engineering, electrical technology or a related field. The objectives are:
PEO-01: Graduates will exhibit their proficiency of applying the knowledge (mathematics, science and engineering) and skills (modern tools) to solve
complex engineering problems related to electrical engineering
PEO-02: Graduates will exhibit effective communication, teamwork, leadership as complements to technical competence.
PEO-03: Graduates will incorporate economic, environmental and sustainability considerations into the practice of electrical engineering and are
contributors to society through their problem-solving capabilities.
PEO-04: Graduates will demonstrate professionalism and uphold ethical values with integrity and commitment to continue their life-long technical
and professional development

Laboratories
+ Circuit Analysis : Digital Logic Design : Electric Machines
Semiconductor : Power System Simulation : Control Systems and Automation
Microprocessors and Computer : Advanced Project : Microwave and Antenna
Project

Specializations Offered

Electrical Engineering with Specialization in Power System.

Electrical Engineering with Specialization in Computer and Embedded System.
Electrical Engineering with Specialization in Electronics and Telecommunication

138

100 Years of Excel

 


 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ee

partment of Bio-Medical Engineering

Dean: Associate Professors Lecturers
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Kamran Dr.-Ing. Abdul Rauf Anwar Mr. Namra Afzal
Dr. Nida Iqbal Ms. AffifaBarakullah
Chairman Mr. Muhammad Usman
Dr.-Ing. Abdul RaufAnwar Assistant Professors Mr. Muhammad Aamir
Dr. Saima Anwar Mr. Muhammad Abdullah
Adnan Rauf Mr. Farhan Yousaf

Biomedical Engineering is the application of engineering principles and concepts in health sciences. Everything from corrective glasses to manipulation of
genes lies within the scope of Biomedical Engineering. The Department is well-equipped with state-of-the-art laboratories and purpose-built class rooms.
The curriculum is meticulously designed to not only provide students with extensive theoretical knowledge but also along with adequate hands-on
experience. The Departmentis currently offering one study program,

Programs Offered
e B.Sc. Biomedical Engineering

Mission
To become the leading program of Biomedical Engineering by imparting methodical educational training to our students and preparing them to become
innovative and socially responsible engineers in health care research and industry.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Our graduates will solve problems related to Biomedical Engineering
PEO-02: Our graduates will work effectively as a team member and lead multidisciplinary teams while demonstrating the interpersonal and
managerial skills, and ethical responsibilities
PEO-03: Our graduates will pursue higher education, research and professional advancement to develop sustainable solutions fulfilling societal
needs

Laboratories

Latest equipment has been inducted in the following labs and students are encouraged to utilize these lab facilities.
e Biomedical Instrumentation

Biomaterials

Bioengineering

HumanAnatomy & Physiology

Simulation/Signal Processing

Biomechanics

Bioelectronics

100 Years of Exc

139

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

Year 1 B.Sc. Biomedical Emgineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
PHY-111 Applied Physics 2 1 BME-103 | Human Anatomy 2 1
CS-141 Introduction to Computing 3 1 MA-113 Calculus & Analytical Geometry 3 0
EE-199 Basic Electrical & Electronics Engineering 3 1 BME-102 _ | Physiology 1 2 1
BME-104/MA-110| Basic Biology /Basic Mathematics 2,3 | 1,0 EE-110 Circuit Analysis 3 1
International Language 0 0 CS-142 Programming Fundamentals 3 1
BME-101 _| Introduction of Biomedical Engineering 1 0 QT-101 | Quran Translation 1 0
IS-101 Islamic & Pak Studies 1 3
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
MA-116 Linear Algebra & Differential Equations 3 0 BME-213 _ | Biomedical Electronics 2 1
BME-201 Physiology 2 2 1 CSE-221 _| Digital Logic Design 3 1
BME-214 Biochemistry 3 0 MA-221 Complex Variable & Transform 3 0
EE-212 Semiconductor Devices 3 1 BME-202 | Cellular & Molecular Biology 2 1
ME-100L Workshop Practice 0 1 EE-220 Signals & Systems 3 0
HU-114L Communication Skills 0 1 QT-201 Quran Translation 2 1 0
1S-201 Islamic & Pak Studies 2 3 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
BME-310 Biomedical Instrumentation 1 2 1 BME-318 Biomedical Instrumentation 2 2 1
EE-320 Applied Probability & Statistics 3 0 BME-XXX | Technical Elective 1 3 0
MA-346 Numerical Methods 3 0 EE-340 Control Systems 3 1
EE-273 Microprocessor Systems 3 1 BME-244 Biomedical Modeling & Simulation 2 1
BME-313 Biomaterials 2 1 BME-212 Biomechanics 2 1
ME-124L Engineering Drawing 0 1 QT-301 Quran Translation 3 4 0
Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No, (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
MGT-XXX__| Management Elective 1 3 0 BME-XXX_| Technical Elective 4 3 0
BME-411 | Medical Imaging 2 1 IME-251 Social & Ethical Aspects in Engineering 2 0
BME-XXX_ | Technical Elective 2 3 0 BME-XXX _| Technical Elective 5 3 0
BME-XXX__ | Technical Elective 3 3 0 MGT-XXX__| Management Elective 2 3 0
HU-221 Technical Writing & Presentation Skills 3 0 BME-412b | Biomedical Engineering Project Phase 2 0 3
BME-412a | Biomedical Engineering Project Phase 1 0 3 QT-401 Quran Translation 4 1 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

140

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Technical Electives (5 out of given 23 must be chosen) EMEP Cuda ais (2 out of given 6 must be chosen)

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr

BME-314 | Bioelectricity

EE-392 Power Electronics

BME-433 Rehabilitation and Sports Medicine

BME-414 | Biomedical Robotics

BME-415 | Biofluid Mechanics

BME-416 | Bioinformatics

CS-361 Artificial Intelligence

BME-418 | Hospital Information Management Systems
BME-419 | Medical Device Quality Systems and Standards
BME-420 | Medical Image Processing

BME-423 | Telemedicine Systems
BME-421 Biophysics
BME-425 | DNAComputing
BME-316 | Drug Delivery Systems
BME-444 Genetic Engineering
BME-432 Neuroscience & Neural Networks
BME-426 Regenerative Medicine
BME-427 | Tissue Engineering
BME-317 | Computational Fluid Dynamics
BME-428 | Nano-Biotechnology
BME-429 | Medical Device Regulatory Affairs

EE-439 Introduction to Machine Learning

BME-311 Biomedical Signal Processing

Department of Mechanical, Mechatronics and Manufacturing Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

MGT 211 Principles of Management

MGT 310 | Production and Operations Management
MGT 313 _ | Total Quality Management

MGT 410 | Project Management

MGT 414 Entrepreneurship and Business Management
MGT 460 | Engineering Economics

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

w] w]e ]o fo lo
Slololofolo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R]wlwlwlwlwlwlwlwlwlw]rm|rm[r]wlololo]rm]nrm |r [ry lo

alololololololosolsolofa{a}alolo}s}jojs]a]s/-]o

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chairman Assistant Professors Ms. Samina Ishaq
Prof. Dr. Shahid Imran Dr. Muhammad Farhan Mr. Sheeraz Ali
Dr. Rabia Shauka Mr. Adeel Munir
Professors Dr. Saad Nawaz Mr. Tahir Asif
Prof. Dr. Fahad Noor Dr. Fahid Riaz Ms. Tamseela Habib
Hafiz Muhammad Shahid Akbar Mr. Syed Mohammad Sannan
Associate Professors Mr. Muhammad Moeen Sultan Mr. Muhammad Ghufran
Dr. Zahid Anwar
Dr. Muhammad Farooq Lecturers
Dr. Muhammad Amjad Mr. Muhammad Ali Shahbaz

Mr. Adnan Qamar
Ms. Anam Anwar

141

 


Spi eer Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

Introduction

Mechanical Engineering is one of the oldest and broadest engineering disciplines. The Department was established in 2007. The Department has
procured latest laboratory equipments in order to conduct laboratory work of engineering and technology classes. The Department is growing and the
leadership is committed to make it an excellent engineering education department. The Department has very active International Student Societies
Chapters of American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) and American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers
(ASHRAE). The Department hosted the international students’ professional development conference (SPDC) in 2014. Students from national as well as
international universities participated in the conference. A group of students represented the Asia Pacific section of the ASME in Houston, USA in
November 2015. The Department has fully functional department library, Semester Cell, Quality Enhancement Cell (QEC), Industrial Liaison Office, a
Conference Room, Girls' Common Room anda Prayer Hall.

Mission
To provide rigorous technical and educational training to students and equip them with skills necessary to carry on lifelong learning and growth in their
professional careers. We will prepare our students to become innovative, socially responsible engineers in industry, business, research, and academia.

Programs Offered
The Department offers undergraduate courses of study leading to the following degrees:

e B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Graduates will become practicing engineers with the ability to solve application level problems related to core Mechanical Engineering and
interdisciplinary fields.
PEO-02: Graduates will be able to pursue higher education, research and professional developmentin engineering and other related fields.
PEO-03: Graduates will demonstrate leadership qualities and professionalism in their chosen field of specialization.
PEO-04: Graduates will demonstrate social and ethical responsibility in their professional careers.

Laboratories

e Thermodynamics Fluid Mechanics

Mechanics of Material
Internal Combustion Engines

Mechanics of Machines
Dynamics

e@ Hydraulic Machinery CAD

e Mechanical Workshops CNC

e Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Heat and Mass Transfer
e

e

142

100 Years of Exc

 


 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ee

Department of Chemical, Polymer and Composite Material Engineering

 

Chairman Assistant Professor Lecturer
Prof. Dr. Tanveer Iqbal Dr. Ch. Haider Ali Dr. Qandeel Almas

Dr. Asthma Khan Dr. Muhammad Irfan
Professor Dr. Samreen Hameed Mr. Haris Mehmood Khan
Prof. Dr. Tanveer Iqbal Dr. Izzat Iqbal Cheema Mr. Ahmed Hassam Khan
Prof. Dr. Syed Mohsin Ali Kazmi Dr. Asif Nadeem Tabish Mr. Muhammad Sulaiman

Dr. Adeel Anwar Mr. Fahad Ali Rabbani
Associate Professor Dr. Asif Jamil Mr. Ansar Javaid
Dr. Sikandar Rafiq Dr. Zohaib Atiq Khan Mr. Qazi Muhammad Omer
Dr. Hamayoun Mahmood Mr. Muhammad Raashid Mr. Muhammad Zia ul-Haq
Dr. Muhammad Imran Rashid Ms. Azqa Khalid

Ms. Nazia Baig

Introduction

The New campus started its B.Sc. Degree program in 2007. Since then, the Department has developed considerably in terms of labs and research
facilities, opening new ways of interaction with different industries. Engineers use specialist scientific knowledge, analysis and innovative thinking to come
up with creative solutions to real-world problems. They design new chemical processes and products, as well as improving the performance of existing
ones. They are also involved in developing cleaner and more sustainable energy sources, and developing new materials for diverse application. The
degree programs at The Department of Chemical, Polymer and Composite Materials Engineering cover all aspects of knowledge, skills and industrial
motives to enable graduates with strong technical education for rapidly changing technological environment to pursue lifelong learning and to achieve
professional success.

Mission
The Department of Chemical, Polymer and Composite Material Engineering is committed to:
1. Provide outstanding undergraduate and graduate degree programs, educating engineers and technologists empowered with excellent
technical, technological and leadership skills, integrity, and social responsibility.
2. Berecognized internationally as a leader in research and engineering science, creating novel and sustainable solutions to serve public interests
and to address global challenges in areas such as health, energy, and environment.
3. Promote inclusive, safe, collaborative, and respectful community for learning and work.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Demonstrate proficiency in Chemical Engineering knowledge through practice and research in engineering, scientific, and complementary
disciplines
PEO-02: Achieve professional success with an understanding and appreciation of ethical behavior, social responsibility, and diversity, both as
individuals and in team environments.
PEO-03: Pursue continued lifelong learning and career growth through professional practice, graduate studies, and other training programs in
engineering sciences and management

Programs Offered
B.Sc. Chemical Engineering

100 Years of Exc

143

 


www.uet.edu.pk

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

 

Laboratories
+ Mass Transfer + — Fluid Flow
Process Heat Transfer + — Particle Technology
Unit Processes + Computers & Computation
Chemical Reaction Engineering + — Energy Engineering
Instrumentation and Control + — Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics
Environmental Engineering » — Research Lab
nt of Basic Science and Humanities
Chairperson Assistant Professor Lecturer
Prof. Dr. AneelaAnwar Dr. Rashid Munir Mr. Muhammad Usman
Dr. Masood UI Hassan Ms. Saba Ajmal
Associate Professor Dr. Maryam Imtiaz Mr. Habib-ur-Rehman
Dr. Ahmad Shuaib Dr. Ayesha Riasat Mr. Hafiz Muhammad Mudassar
Dr. Kashif Rehan Dr.Umm-|-Kalsoom
Dr. Samina Akbar Dr. Zulfigar Ali

Introduction

The Department of Basic Sciences and Humanities is predominantly occupied for establishing the significance of Basic Sciences and Humanities as
bedrock for learning in realm of Engineering and Technology. In consonance with the vision of HEC and PEC, the doyens of the university agreed on
allocating 30% of curriculum to these epistemological domains which, in turn, gave rise to the Department of Basic Sciences and Humanities. With an aim
to forge sound roots in modes of rational inquiry and to accouter students with scientific, socio-cultural, aesthetic and oratory convictions the Department
of Basic Sciences and Humanities has been offering a comprehensive array of subjects.

Subjects Offered
The Department of Basic Sciences and Humanities has been offering the wide variety of subjects to form a bridge between the realms of engineering and
basic sciences & humanities. These subjects are given below;

e Applied Chemistry e Applied Physics
e Engineering Physics Lab e Applied Mathematics
e Communication Skills e Technical Writing and Presentation Skills
e Functional English e Islamic Studies
e Pakistan Studies
Laboratories

The Department possesses and takes care of five undergraduate state-of-the-art laboratories including Applied Chemistry, Applied Physics, Engineering
Physics, Mechanics and Computer Labs. These laboratories are equipped with cutting edge equipment to enrich the learning experience of young minds
along with the flavor of practical work. These laboratories also render invaluable technical support to the projects undertaken by other departments.

Advanced Research Lab

An Advanced Research Laboratory was established in the Department of Basic Sciences and Humanities at UET NEW Campus in 2017 to initiate the

multifaceted research activities and projects in the campus. This laboratory brings together scientists and engineers not only from different departments of
144 UET but also from other institutes of Pakistan to collaborate on research and development. The major instruments which are available in this advanced

100 Years of Excel

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

research lab include UV-spectrophotometer, FTIR, HPLC, GC-MS and Atomic Absorption. This advanced research lab has been serving research
scholars not only of NEW campus butalso the research scholars of other UET campuses. We are expecting successful applications of this research lab to
develop a globally competitive research program with a wide vision to address and help in solving national and international problems in addition to
addressing fundamental questions in science & technology.

Nanotechnology Lab

The Department of Basic sciences & Humanities of New Campus is purpose-built campus with a well-equipped nanotechnology lab. This lab established
in 2017. This lab includes all basic and essential instruments which are required in synthesis of nanoparticles including hot plates, heating mental, distilled
water plant, fume hood and muffle furnace. The graduates of different departments including biomedical engineering, chemical engineering, mechanical
engineering and electrical engineering perform their routine experiments in this lab. Likewise, this lab is also supportive and beneficial to the research
scholars of different departments.

Physics Research Lab (PRL)

Basic facilities for the fabrication of nanoparticles and deposition of thin films are available in PRL. Apparatus is available for the synthesis of nanoparticles
through hydrothermal land co-precipitate method (DC Sputtering). Deposition of thin film by spin coater and magnetron sputtering is going to be installed
soon in the lab. Recently PRL has won the NRPU funding to the tune of 7.2 million rupees for the development of new photoactive materials for
degradation of pollutants. Lab is open for students of M.Phil. and Ph.D. from main campus to make use of the available facilities to promote and advance in
the field of research.

e Advance Nano-material Research e Applied Chemistry
e —Bio-material / Nano ceramics e —Nano-material / Nano Catalysis
e Environmental Science e Applied Physics
e Engineering Physics e Physics Research (Nanoparticles Synthesis)
e Physics Research e Applied Mechanics
e Mathematics Computer
Faculty

The Departments privileged to have the gamut of highly qualified, experienced and specialized faculty with postgraduate and research degrees from the
world renowned Universities. This dedicated faculty keeps themselves abreast of the latest developments in their respective disciplines. The faculty has
regularly been participating in and carrying out seminars and symposia on national and international levels and has carved out a significant niche for
themselves in their respective fields.

B.S. Environmental Science

Environmental science is an interdisciplinary field that requires students to be challenged in combining skills and knowledge from different fields involving
Chemistry, Physics, Geography, Earth and marine sciences, Biological and social sciences while focusing primarily on human impact on environment and
how this impact can be channelize towards a more positive relationship between human and the ecosystem around him the idea is to combine multiple
perspectives, disciplines and data sources, to build up a fuller understanding of natural and human environments.

Mission

The aim of launching this program is to provide an educational environmental where quality education can be imparted to the youth and to involve various
sectors of the society e.g engineers, technologists, doctors, policy makers, funding agencies, investors, importers, exporters, media educators and all
sorts of professionals forming a joint effort to encounter environmental issues.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
The graduates will be able to

145

100 Years of Exc

 


Spi eer Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

PEO-01: Apply the knowledge of chemical and physical sciences to provide solutions of environmental problems through advance tools of the field.

PEO-02: Acquire skills necessary for the management of environmental problems in multidisciplinary environment and demonstrate moral and
ethical values in fulfilling professional and societal obligations.

PEO-03: Commitment to continue learning for the professional growth of society and conservation of sustainable environment.

Department of Computer Science

Chairman Assistant Professor Mr. Nadeem Iqbal
Prof. Dr. Shahzad Asif Dr. Farah Adeeba Mr. AizazAkmal

Dr. Muhammad Irfan Yousuf Ms. Namra Sheikh
Professor Dr. Qurat-ul-Ain Mr. Syed Adnan UI Hassan
Prof. Dr. Shahzad Asif

Lecturer Teaching Fellows
Associate Professor Ms. Mufrah Naveed Mr. Usman Ahmed
Dr. Muhammad Umar Qasim Ms. Drakhshan Bokhat Ms. Zahra Zulfigar

Ms. Anam Iftikhar Mr. Faizan Ahmed

Mr. Zeeshan Ramzan

Introduction

The Department of Computer Science at the University of Engineering and Technology (UET) is one of the most prominent and oldest center of computer
education in the country. To meet the growing demand of computer science education, UET established a Computer Science Department at its New
Campus located in Kala Shah Kaku in 2016. The Department of Computer Science at the New Campus offers B.Sc. degree programs in Computer
Science and Software Engineering. The Department is home to modern technologies and highly skilled faculty to prepare students for the jobs of the
future.

Courses of Study

The Department offers the following degree programs
a) B.Sc. Computer Science
b) B.Sc. Software Engineering

B.Sc. Computer Science
Mission
To disseminate computing education to the students of the Department emphasizing entrepreneurship and ethical standards while encouraging them to

remain abreast with latest developments in computing tools and processes and use their skills to identify and find solution to society's problems, and to use
department's resources and computing expertise to help industry, government and community in solving their problems.

146

100 Years of Excel

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

B.Sc. Computer Science

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
CS-161 Programming Fundamenta 3 1 CS-162 Object Oriented Programming 3 1
CS-102 IsIntroduction to Computing 3 1 CMPE-222 _| Digital Logic Design 3 1
HU-102 Functional English 3 0 HU-240 Psychology 3 0
MA-123 Calculus 3 0 HU-111L Communication Skills (Lab) 0 1
PHY-111 Applied Physics 2 1 MA-224 Multi-Variate Calculus 3 0
ME-100L Workshop Practice 0 4 MA-343, Applied Probability & Statistics 3 0
QT-101 Translation of Holy Quran 1 0

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
CS-261 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 1 CS-262 Database Systems 3 1
HU-221 Technical writing and Presentation Skills 3 0 CS-263 | Operating Systems 3 1
CS-271 Computer Organization and Assembly Language 3 1 MA-228 | Differential Equations 3 0
MA-234 Linear Algebra 3 0 CS-272 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 0
CS-261 Discrete Mathematics 3 0 CS-273 _ | Theory of Automata 3 0
QT-201 Translation of Holy Quran 4 0

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
CS-364 Information Security 3 0 CS-373 Computer Networks 3 1
CS-371 Artificial Intelligence 3 1 CS-39x Computer Science Elective-2 3 0
CS-301 Professional Practices in Software Development 3 0 CS-39x Computer Science Elective-3 3 0
CS-39x Computer Science Elective-1 3 0 CS-380 Graph Theory 3 0
CS-165 Software Engineering 3 1 CS-372 Parallel and Distributed Computing 3 0
QT-301 Translation of Holy Quran 4 0

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr
CS-465 Final Year Project-| 0 3 CS-466 Final Year Project-Il 0 3
CS-471 Compiler Construction 3 1 MGT-414 | Entrepreneurship & Business Management 3 0
CS-49x Computer Science Elective-4 3 0 IS-201 Islamic & Pakistan Studies-lI 3 0
IS-101 Islamic & Pakistan Studies-| 3 0 HU-XXX International Language 0 0
CS-49x Computer Science Elective-5 3 0 MGT-424 | Leadership Strategies 3 0
QT-401 Translation of Holy Quran 1 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

147

 


 

148

Spi eer Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

B.Sc. Software Engineering

Mission

The mission of the Bachelor of Science degree in Software Engineering is to educate students how to engineer and maintain software systems within
constraints and prepare them for lifelong learning. The program will produce successful professionals and entrepreneurs who can define, design, develop
and deliver high quality software solutions while adhering to ethical and professional standards.

Year 1 B.Sc. Software Engineering

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) th | Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th | Pr

CS-102 Introduction to Computing (ITC) CS-162 Object Oriented Programming (OOP)
CS-161 Programing Fundamentals (PF) IS-101 Islamic and Pak Studies-I

HU-102 Functional English (FE) CS-163 Discrete Mathematical Structures (DMS)
MA-123 Calculus CS-165 Software Engineering (SE)

PHY-111 Applied Physics (APH) MA-116 Linear Algebra and Differential Equations
ME-100L Workshop Practice (WP) QT-101 Translation of the Holy Quran

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SO|N]wlwlwlw
alalolo/=/=
a} wl] wl] o] ol
o}o]s]olo}/=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
CS-261 Data Structures & Algorithms (DSA) 3 1 CS-263 Operating Systems (OS) 3 1
SE-221 Introduction to Human Computer Interaction 3 0 CS-262 Database System 3 1
SE-211 Software Requirement Engineering (SRE) 3 0 SE-222 Software Design & Architecture (SDA) 2 1
MA-343, Applied Probability & Statistics 3 0 HU-240 Psychology 2 0
HU-114L Communication Skills LAB 0 1 IS-201 Islamic and Pak Studies-II 3 0
QT-201 Translation of the Holy Quran 1 0 MGT-103 __ | Sociology for Engineering 2 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
SE-323 Software Construction and Development (SC&D) 2 1 SE-331 Software Quality Engineering 3 0
CS-366 Computer Networks (CN) 3 4 CS-364 Information Security 3 0
HU-221 Technical Writing and Presentation Skills 3 0 CS-301 Professional Practices in Software Development 3 0
XX-XXX SE-Elective-| 3 0 SE-324 Principles of Web Engineering 2 1
CS-3xx SE-Supporting-I 3 0 XX-XXX SE-Elective-Il 3 0
QT-301 Translation of the Holy Quran 1 0 CS-xxx SE-Supporting-Il 3 0

Course Subject Credit Hours Course Subject Credit Hours
No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr No. (Pre-requisites) Th Pr
SE-441 Software Project Management 3 0 XX-XXX SE-Supporting-Ill 3 0
SE-442 Software Re-Engineering 3 0 XX-XXX SE-Elective-V 3 0
XX-XXX SE-Elective-Ill 3 0 CS-466 FYP-II 0 3
XX-XXX SE-Elective-lV 3 0 MGT-424 | Leadership Strategies 3 0
MGT-414 | Entrepreneurship and Business Management 3 0 HU-xxx International Language 0 0
CS-465 FYP-I 0 3 QT-401 Translation of the Holy Quran 1 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Rachna Campus


 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Incharge
Dr. Haroon Farooq

The College

The College was inaugurated on 15” January 2003; by the then Governor of the Punjab Lt. Gen. (R) Khalid Maqbool. Itis located on the left bank of Nokhar
Branch Canal about seven kilometers off (East) G.T. Road, between Gakhar and Wazirabad. The area is near to industrial cities of Gujranwala, Sialkot and
Gujrat. The campus is spread over an area of 73 acres.

College Status

RCET was declared the Constituent College of University of Engineering & Technology, Lahore on 22-12-2006. Same rules & regularizations, regarding
admission, examination, award of degree etc. as adopted by UET, Lahore, are followed. The up-gradation of RCET to Rachna University of Engineering &
Technology was announced on 24-06-2008 on the directions of the then Prime Minister of Islamic Republic of Pakistan.

Programs Offered
Currently, courses at undergraduate and postgraduate levels are being offered. All B.Sc. Engineering courses are accredited by the Pakistan Engineering
Council.

Undergraduate
B.Sc. in Electrical Engineering
B.Sc. in Mechanical Engineering
B.Sc. in Industrial & Manufacturing Engineering
B.Sc. (Honors) Computer Science

ment of Electrical Engineering

Head of Department Adnan Bashir Lecturers

Dr. Ata-Ur-Rehman Muhammad Rehan Arif Engr. Waqas Ali
Moazzam Shehzad Engr. Hira Ali Jamal

Assistant Professors Engr. Irzam Shahid

Dr. Haroon Farooq Engr. Salman Tariq

Dr. Tayyeb Mehmood

The Department of Electrical Engineering was established in 2003. Currently the Department has a student enrollment of around 200. So far by year 2017-
18, around 400 students have graduated from the Department. The Department offer undergraduate B.Sc. Electrical Engineering Degree. The program is
accredited with Pakistan Engineering Council. Being a constituent college of UET, Lahore the Electrical Engineering Department follows the same
curriculum as that of Electrical Engineering Department, UET, Lahore.

Mission

To provide sound technical and educational training to students and equip them with skills necessary to carry on lifelong learning and growth in their
professional careers. To prepare the students to become innovative, socially responsible and ethically groomed engineers in industry, business, research
and academia.

151

100 Years of Excellence


welt Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

 

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: To produce employable graduates with core mathematical, scientific and engineering concepts in the domain of Electrical Engineering.
PEO-02: To produce creative engineers equipped with sound research abilities and analytical problem solving skills using modern tools to undertake
real world challenges and pursue higher education.
PEO-03: To produce graduates who will demonstrate social and ethical responsibility in their professional careers.
PEO-04: To demonstrate leadership, communication, and managerial skills.

Department of Mechanical Engineering

Head of Department Assistant Professors Lecturers
Dr. Hassan Ali Dr. Tariq Nawaz Chaudhary Muhammad Kashif Jamil
Dr. M. Salman Abbasi Abdul Rehman Riaz
Associate Professor Mushtaq Ahmad Hafiz Muhammad Suleman
Dr. Hassan Ali Humble Bin Khalid Aaqib Imdad
Muhammad Qasim Jawad Ahmad
Laboratories
The following laboratories have been setup at Mechanical Engineering Department:
- — Energy Resources & Utilization CAD/FEA
Fluid Mechanics/Hydraulic Machinery + Mechanical Workshops
|.C Engines + Machines Shop
Heat Transfer - — Fitting Shop
H.V.A.C + Foundry Shop
Engineering Mechanics + — Carpentry Shop
Mechanics of Materials + Electrical Shop
Instrumentation & Control + — Welding Shop

Mechanics of Machines

Department of Industrial & Manufacturing Engineering

 

Head of Department Mr. Muhammad Shahzad Mr. Awais Sohail
Dr. Qasim Ali Ranjha Mr. Ahmad Raza Khan Mr. Muhammad Nouman Khalid
Mr. Muhammad Awais Ahmad Mr. Ehtisham Riaz
Assistant Professors
Mr. Muhammad Aslam Lecturers
Mr. M. Mohsin Ahmad Sadiq Mr. Ahmad Sheraz Cheema
Dr. Ubaid-Ur-Rehman Ghori Dr. Muhammad Harris
Laboratories
The following laboratories have been setup at Industrial & Manufacturing Engineering Department:
Machine Tools and Machining + Production and Operations Management
Industrial Materials + PlantEngineering
Manufacturing Processes + — Engineering Drawing
Metrology and Quality Assurance + Instrumentation and Control

152

100 Years of Exc

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Department of Computer Science and Engineering

Head of Department Lecturers Ms. Saira Arif
Dr. Abdul Jaleel Mr. Noman Sohaib Qureshi Mr. Abu Bakar Siddique
Ms. Amna Wajid
Assistant Professors Dr. Natasha Nigar
Mr. Shahid Islam Ms. Uroosa Bilal Chaudhry
Dr. Tayybah Kiren Mr. Muhammad Shehzad Aslam
Laboratories
Programming Lab
Systems Lab

 

DTeFoyeTAUNT AMO) elie r=] meso = 1alecoMM m6) utré TANI (cise ae C= lanl (eas) (610 |[oks

Head of Department Dr. Syed Mazhar Shah (Chemistry) Lecturers

Dr. Majid Hussain (Mathematics) Dr. Atta-ur-Rehman Makhdoom (Physics) Ms. Faiza Bushra (Mathematics)
Mr. LiaquatAli Tahir (Mathematics) Mr. Ahmad Ali (English)

Assistant Professors Mr. Muhammad Abdullah (Islamic Studies)

Dr. Adnan Aslam (Mathematics)

Common Facilities

IT Facilities
An on campus state-of-the-art computer laboratory provides research and simulation facilities to the students. Moreover, high speed internet facility
providing access to international research journals is also available at library.

Library

There are more than 6000 books of various disciplines available at the library. The college also has access to the digital library (having more than 25,000
eBooks) being maintained by UET, Lahore. Information Resource Labis set up in the library, which is equipped with various computers and Internet facility.
Under Mega Project funded by HEC, Rs. 30 million has been reserved for the construction of new main central library.

Accommodations
There are five hostels with the capacity of 350 students. There is separate hostel for female students. All hostels are equipped with the internet facility.

Transport
Transport is provided to the day-scholars from Gujranwala to the college and back to Gujranwala. Boarders also enjoy the facility twice a week for
shopping and recreational tours.

Medical Centre
Amedical centre with all necessary medicines is being managed by a MBBS Doctor who is on the roll of the College and available round the clock.

153

100 Years of Excellence


ieee Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ——

Mosque
The College has spacious, beautiful and well-furnished mosque, which can accommodate available strength at Campus for prayers.

Cafeteria and Canteen
Areasonably spacious cafeteria with lawns is available to the students, where food, cold drinks, tea and other utility items are available at the market rates.
Moreover, a sizeable canteen and two fruit shops to meet the requirements of students and staff members at the campus exists at the College.

Sports
The College along with the academic activities lays proper emphasis on sports and games. Currently the College has following sports facilities:
+ Badminton Courts 02 + Basket Ball Court 01
Foot Ball Ground 01 + Volley Ball Court 01
+ CricketGround 01 + Gymnasium 01
+ Table Tennis 01
Societies

Currently the following societies are organizing different events, seminars and workshops to enhance mental, physical, creative, literary and dramatic
skills of the students to meet different challenges in their professional careers.

Cultural, Dramatic and Entertainment Society (CDES)

Literary and Debating Society (LDS)

Blood Donating Society (BDS)

Rachna Students Support Society (RSSS)

Society of Electrical Engineering Department (SEED)

Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers, RCET Chapter (IEEE)
American Society of Mechanical Engineering, RCET Chapter (ASME)
Society of Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering (SIME)

Administrative Staff
Assistant Registrar Mr. Aftab Ahmad Khan Incharge Examinations Mr. Liaquat Ali Tahir
Incharge Library Dr. Hassan Ali Transport Officer Mr. Adnan Bashir
Administrative Officer (Accounts) —§ Mr. Muhammad Mazhar Ali
Non-Academic Advisor Mr. Humble Bin Khalid Incharge Cafeteria/Canteens = Mr. Adnan Bashir
Hostel Warden Mr. Muhammad RehanArif Incharge Sports Mr. M. Awais Ahmad
Medical officer Dr. Jannat Nawaz

 

100 Years of Exc


Narowal Campus


 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Campus Coordinator
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Shahbaz

University of Engineering and Technology Lahore, Narowal Campus established in 2012, offers multiple Bachelor level Engineering Programs.
Engineering Classes initially started in post Graduate Block of Islamic Degree College Narowal on temporary basis in 2012. Currently Narowal Campus is
shifted to its own state-of-the-art / under construction, buildings situated at around 10 Km from Narowal city on Muridky Narowal road. The beautifully
architectural designed buildings are constructed on a vast land of around 200 acres which has been arranged by Government of the Punjab. Around 750
students are studying in this campus in different engineering disciplines of Electrical, Mechanical, Civil, Computer Science & Engineering and Biomedical
Engineering Programs.

Department of Electrical Engineering

Assistant Professors Lecturers Osama Bin Naeem
Dr. Rana Tariq Noor UIAin Mir Muhammad Haseeb
Dr. Imran Javed Amna Javeed
Dr. Khurram Hashmi Shahbaz Bashir

Asia Rafique
Mission

To provide comprehensive knowledge of Electrical Engineering to the students and to equip them with necessary skills so that they may lead fulfilling and
rewarding careers. To prepare the students so that they become Electrical Engineering professionals of highest caliber.

Introduction

Department of Electrical Engineering, Narowal Campus started working in 2012 at UET Lahore, Narowal. The mission of Electrical Engineering
Departmentis to ensure understanding and application of electrical engineering fundamentals by inculcating analysis and design skills for the betterment
of humanity and to become a center of excellence in the field of electrical engineering.

The students are laudably facilitated with well-equipped Laboratories, multimedia assisted class rooms, innovation center, scholarships and consistently
updated Library.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)

PEO-01: The graduates will acquire the knowledge and concepts of Electrical Engineering and the underlying principles of basic sciences and will
utilize these skills to solve diverse Electrical Engineering problems in any professional setting.

PEO-02: The graduates will demonstrate passion to pursue lifelong learning related to concepts of mathematics, science and Electrical Engineering
and because of this, they will be able to capture innovative concepts in the field of Electrical Engineering in higher education and industry.

PEO-03: The graduates will be active members of any organization that they aspire to join, and they will be proficient in team work and will
demonstrate leadership in any professional setting.

PEO-04: The graduates will be able to display professionalism and uphold ethical values as responsible citizens and they will be aware of
environmental challenges and sustainability issues which may arise from time to time.

Programs
e B.Sc. Electrical Engineering

Alumni
Five batches of Electrical Engineering Department with a total of 170 students have graduated and the alumni are working in various national and 457

100 Years of Excellence


soyeuelelue Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

 

international organizations.

Regulatory Status

The undergraduate program of Electrical Engineering at Narowal Campus is accredited by PEC.

Laboratories

The Department has the following well equipped laboratories which fulfill the academic needs of students and faculty:
Electric Circuits Lab Electronics Lab
Systems Lab Electrical Workshop and FYP Lab
Electrical Machines Lab Computer Lab

Extra-Curricular Activities
Seminars, Project Exhibitions, and workshops etc. are managed by IEEE Society, under the supervision of The Department.

Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Narowal Campus

Assistant Professor Lecturers Saadia Tariq
Dr. Muhammad Idrees (HoD) Yassin ul Haq Fatima Shahzadi
Iqra Muneer Rabia Zafar

Introduction

Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Narowal Campus started working in 2014 at UET Lahore, Narowal. The mission of Computer Science
and Engineering Department is to equip the students with up-to-date curricula of Computer Science and Engineering disciplines, to ensure that the
students have the solid foundations in core concepts in computing, to train them in problem solving and decision making skills and to prepare them for
lifelong learning in the discipline. The students are given the sterling opportunity to get education of highest standards in pleasant and friendly
atmosphere, and to make compatible with their means. The students are laudably facilitated with well-equipped Laboratories, state-of-the-art Computer
Labs with Internet facility, multimedia assisted class rooms, innovation center, scholarships and consistently Updated Library.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Excel in a career utilizing their education in Computer Science.
PEO-02: Continue to enhance their knowledge.
PEO-03: Be effective in multidisciplinary and diverse professional environments.
PEO-04: Provide leadership and demonstrate professional integrity.

Programs
e B.S.Computer Science

Regulatory Status
All requirements of NCEAC (HEC) governing bodies are completed. Sessions 2015 & 2016 have been accredited from NCEAC (HEC). Final visits for
Sessions 2017, 2018 & 2019 are in process.

Laboratories
Two fully furnished Computer Labs are available in The Department. Four Labs are at procurement stage and will be established soon at the Department.

158

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Extra-Curricular Activities
Gaming Competitions, Software Exhibitions, Free-lancing, Sports Activities, Annual Dinners, debating activities, etc. also managed by CODATOR
Society, under the supervision of the Department.

 

Mechanical Engineering Department (Narowal Campus

Assistant Professor Lecturers M. Lolak

Engr. Dr. Saqlain Abbas (HOD) Nazim Waheed Umar Ishaq
Shahid Farooq Asif Jalal
Tanveer Mukhtar Sufyan Matloob

Mission

To produce mechanical engineers equipped with knowledge and skills to carry on lifelong learning through quality teaching and training. Our graduates
shall be able to serve for the sustainable development of the society while demonstrating professional ethics and responsible social conduct

Introduction
The Department of Mechanical engineering was established in 2012. Currently it has an enrolment of 175 students at undergraduate level. So far by year
2020, five batches holding 197 students have graduated from the Department and are serving at national & international level.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Apply the knowledge to solve analytical and practical mechanical engineering problems. (Engineering Capabilities)
PEO-02: Work for the continuous professional and sustainable socio-technical development. (Societal Development and Lifelong Learning)
PEO-03: Demonstrate professional ethics, effective communication and managerial skills. (Ethics, Management and Communication)

Programs Offered
B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering

Students Society's
ASME Narowal Chapter

Existing Laboratories

Engineering Mechanics Fluid Mechanics
Hydraulic Machinery Mechanics of Materials
Mechanics of Machines Workshops
Metrology & Quality Assurance Computer lab
Department of Civil Engineering
Lecturer Intezar Hussain Sohail Ahmad
Dr. Muhammad Shoaib Karam (HoD) Muhammad Tahir AhadAli
Sehrish Khan Usman Anwar
Muhammad Mohsin Muhammad Usmaan
Adeel Faisal 159

100 Years of Excellence


soyeuelelue Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ————

Department of Civil Engineering at Narowal campus established in 2013. First batch of Civil engineers graduated in 2017 and almost all have successfully
secured jobs. Around 160 students are currently enrolled in Civil Engineering Department in different sessions. The Department has highly qualified
faculty from USA, Germany, Japan, China and Pakistan.

The Department of Civil Engineering excels in innovative teaching and research, in developing practical applications and approaches to problems
associate in field and areas of study, and in making professionals and leaders who will have worldwide influence on technologies and societies.

Program Offered
e B.Sc. Civil Engineering

Mission
To impart high quality Civil Engineering education through modern teaching and research for the national and international socio-economic development.

Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Graduates demonstrate their proficiency of applying the knowledge & skills to solve complex Civil engineering problems.
PEO-02: Graduates communicate effectively and contribute in the project team.
PEO-03: Graduates uphold principles of ethics and integrity throughout their professional practices.
PEO-04: Graduates engage themselves in continuous professional learning process.

Laboratories
The Department has the following well equipped laboratories which fulfill the academic needs of students and faculty that includes:
e Surveying e Geotechnical Engineering
e Computer e Concrete
e — Environmental Engineering e Fluid Mechanics
e Engineering Mechanics

Department of Biomedical Engineering

Assistant Professors Lecturer

Dr. Farooq Ahmad (HOD) Umber Warraich
Dr. Muhammad Umair Ahmad Khan Aqib Nasim

Dr. Muhammad Rehan Chaudry Abdul Hanan Taqi

Biomedical Engineering is an interdisciplinary field that takes design concepts from multiple science and engineering domains including Electrical,
Mechanical, Computer Science, Mathematics, Physics and Biology. Biomedical engineers are professionals who can effectively integrate the knowledge
from the fields to design solutions for health industry in the areas of clinical equipment management, implantable medical devices, rehabilitation, medical
robotics etc. Today, with the increasing progress in the medical science, there is a growing demand for technical experts who understand complex
engineering challenges and work closely with the healthcare professionals for a continuous improvement in human health standards. A budget of Rs. 175
million has been allocated and state-of-the-art laboratory facilities are being furnished to meet the needs of the modern curriculum.

Mission
To become the leading program of Biomedical Engineering by imparting methodical educational training to our students and preparing them to become
innovative and socially responsible engineers in health care research and industry.

160

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Program Education Objectives (PEOs)
PEO-01: Knowledge and Skills-Our graduates will solve application-level problems related to Biomedical Engineering.
PEO-02: Interpersonal, Leadership and Work Ethics-Our graduates will work effectively as a team member and lead multidisciplinary teams
while demonstrating the interpersonal and managerial skills, and ethical responsibilities.
PEO-03: Socio-economic and Life-long learning-Our graduates will pursue higher education, research and professional advancement to
develop sustainable solutions fulfilling societal needs.

Program Offered
e B.Sc. Biomedical Engineering

Basic Sciences & Humanities Department

Assistant Professors Lecturers Mr. Muhammad Ishaq Malik
Dr. Habib Hussain (HoD) Mr. Muhammad Zeeshan Ashraf

Dr. Muhammad Yousuf Mr. Tahir Shahzad

Dr. Imran Aslam Ms. Farheen Samra

Dr. Absar UI Haq Ms. Rabia Shaukat

Ms. Anjum Naseem Rao

Introduction

Basic Sciences and Humanities (BS & H) Department was established in 2012 in UET Lahore, Narowal campus. To inculcate quality education, 12 highly
qualified faculty members have been employed.

The Department involves teaching courses of Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Communication skills, Business administration, Psychology and
Pakistan & Islamic studies, in connection with all the programmes offered by Engineering departments. The Department aims to provide the students with
a broad perception and incorporate in them the idea of integrated nature of engineering and social aspects of professional life. The Department also
provides trainings to increase linguistic proficiency.

Laboratories

The Department has following well-equipped laboratories to fulfill academic needs of students and faculty as well:
e Physics
e Chemistry

161

100 Years of Excellence


Rules & Regulations
Relating to Admissions,
Examinations & Discipline




www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

1. Definitions

a) “University” means the University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore

b) “College” means the Constituent/Affiliated College of the University

c) “Faculty” means the concerned faculty of the University

d) “Vice-Chancellor” means the Vice-Chancellor of the University

e) “ProVice-Chancellor’ means the Pro Vice-Chancellor of the University

f) “Dean” means the Dean of the concerned faculty

g) “Principal” means the Principal ofa college

h) “Chairman” means the Chairman of the concerned department of the University/College

i) “Controller” means the Controller of Examinations of the University

j) “Student” means a bonafide student of a degree program of the University who does not maintain admission simultaneously in any other
degree/diploma program of the University orin any other Institution

k) “Candidate” means a student who intends to appear in an examination

“Board of Studies” means the Board of Studies of the concerned discipline of the University/College

Explanations
The pronoun “he” and its derivatives are used for both male and female persons.
Depending upon the context, the words imparting the singular number include the plural number as well.

2. Modification of Rules and Regulations
The rule and regulations governing various aspects of students’ life at the University (such as discipline, admissions, examination, migration, fees
and charges, etc.) are given in this prospectus as they stood at the time of its publication. There is no guarantee that these rules and regulations will
remain unchanged throughout a student's stay at the University, nor does it in any way restrict or curtail the inherent powers for the University
authorities to modify them whenever in their judgment any modifications are called for, and to implement the modified rules and regulations from a
date which they deem appropriate.

3. Special Provisions

a) _Inallcases where the regulations are silent, the decision of the Vice-Chancellor shall be final.

b) Interpretation of these rules and regulations by authorized officers of the University shall be final.

c) The University authorities reserve the right to make any changes in the existing regulations, rules, fee structure and courses of study that may be
considered necessary at any time without prior notice.

d) Nostudentis allowed to maintain simultaneous enrollment in any other program of studies in the University or any other educational institution
within or outside Pakistan, unless permitted by the competent authority as an Exchange Student.

e) Incase a student enrolled in this University is found to be a regular student of some other university/institution, whether local or foreign, his
admission in this university shall be canceled.

f) Students are required to know the rules and regulations mentioned in the prospectus and notified time to time. Ignorance of rules and
regulations does not absolve them of their responsibilities and shall not be treated as an excuse.

g) The Vice-Chancellor has been authorized by the Syndicate, on the recommendations of the Deans, to make amendments in these regulations
and remove any difficulties faced during implementations of these regulations.

4. Liability for Injury, Damage and Loss
The University teaching programs include training in its workshops and laboratories, places of engineering and architectural interest, industrial
concern, and construction jobs. The University or other concerns shall not be responsible in the event of an injury, damage or loss to a student
resulting from any cause whatsoever during the course of such training.

164

100 Years of Ex

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021
UNDERGRADUATE SEMESTER REGULATIONS
1.0 Introduction

The following regulations govern the Semester System of teaching and examination for the Undergraduate degrees awarded by University of
Engineering and Technology (UET), Lahore.

a) The Undergraduate degrees offered at the University under Semester System are classified as Bachelor of Science (B.Sc. and B.S.) and
Bachelor. B.Sc. degrees are offered in Engineering disciplines, Technology disciplines, Computer Science and City and Regional
Planning. Bachelor's degrees are offered in Architecture, Product and Industrial Design, Business Administration and Business
Information Technology. B.S. degree is offered in Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics.

b) Masculine gender used in the following regulations implies male students as well as female students.

c) The term faculty member or instructor or teacher when mentioned in these regulations would refer to the concerned faculty member or
instructor or teacher, ifnot mentioned as such.

d) The medium of instructions and examinations shall be English for all subjects except Islamic Studies and Pakistan Studies for which the
medium of instructions and examinations may be either Urdu or English.

e) The term "Academic Year” refers to the period of study at the University spread over one calendar year period. Academic year is further
divided into semesters.

f) | The term "Contact Hour" refers to a 50 minutes period of contact with the students.

g) The term "Credit Hour (CH)" refers to a unit of academic credit during a semester. Each credit hour is related to a one or more "Contact
hours per week" according to subject type and the semester in which itis offered as defined in these regulations.

h) The term “Pre-requisites” refers to subjects that must be successfully completed prior to registration in a subject requiring these pre-
requisites.

i) The term “Co-requisite” refers to subjects that must be registered simultaneously if studied for the first time. During repetition,
simultaneous registration of such subjects is notnecessary.

j) The term “Tutor” refers to a teacher appointed as an advisor and counselor to a group of students and the term “Tutorial” refers to a
scheduled session with their tutor.

2.0 Degree Duration

a) The minimum duration of the undergraduate degree programs shall not be less than four academic years in case of Engineering,
Engineering Technology, Computer Science, City and Regional Planning, Product and Industrial Design, Business Administration,
Business Information Technology, Chemistry, Mathematics, Physics and five academic years in case of Architecture.
b) The maximum duration of the degree program shall not be more than six academic years for programs with a minimum duration of four
academic years and seven academic years for programs with a minimum duration of five academic years.

2.1 Extension Beyond Maximum Duration

a) The Vice-Chancellor may grant extensions up to a maximum period of one year beyond the maximum duration for completing
requirements for the award of degree. Students requiring extension may apply to the Vice-Chancellor for this purpose.

b) Astudent would be separated from the University ifhe requires extension beyond one year.

c) Separated students can apply to the Vice Chancellor for re-admission. If their application is accepted, the concerned department will
transfer subjects from the previous registration in accordance with the prescribed rule and assign them to an Entry Session for the purpose
of computing their maximum degree duration. They will be allotted new entry session as per the recommendation of the department and
new registration number.

d) Are-admitted student will not be granted second re-admission if he is separated again from the University.

 

165

100 Years of Excellence


Es Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

3.0 Student Status
a) Students shall be classified (1) on the basis of number of credit hours registered in a semester and (2) on the basis of credit hours
completed.
b) The students are classified as per the following nomenclature on the basis of credit hours registered during a semester:
i. Students registering in at least 12 credit hours during fall and spring semesters and 6 credit hours during summer semester within the
minimum duration of their respective degree program shall be called "Regular".
ii, Students shall be classified as "Casual" students if they register in less than 12 credit hours during fall and spring semesters and less
than 6 credit hours during summer semester; Or they register in subjects after completion of their minimum degree duration period.
c) Thestudents are classified as per the following nomenclature on the basis of credit hours completed:
i. “First Year” students if they have successfully completed less than or up to 32 credit hours of prescribed syllabus;
ii. “Second Year” students if they have successfully completed more than 32 credit hours but up to 68 credit hours of prescribed syllabus;
iii. “Third Year” students if they have successfully completed more than 68 credit hours but up to 104 credit hours of prescribed syllabus;
iv. “Fourth Year” students, in case of five years degree program only, if they have successfully completed more than 104 credit hours but
up to 136 credit hours of prescribed syllabus;
v. “Final Year” students if they have successfully completed more than 104 credit hours, in case of a four degree program, and more than
136 credit hours, in case ofa five years degree program, of prescribed syllabus.

4.0 Credit Hours Requirements
The credit hours required for the award of degree may range from a minimum of 134 to a maximum of 140 for degree programs with minimum
duration of four academic years and from a minimum of 166 to a maximum of 174 for degree programs with minimum duration of five academic
years. These will include a minimum of 6 credit hours of “final year design project” or equivalent spread over two semesters.

5.0 Semesters Nomenclature, Duration and Registration Matters

a) There shall be two regular semesters, namely Fall and Spring semesters, and an optional summer semester during each academic year.

b) Falland spring semesters will be spread over 16 to 18 weeks including examinations with at least 15 study weeks during the semester. The
duration of summer semester will be 8 weeks including examinations with weekly contact hours being double from those of fall and spring
semesters.

c) The maximum and minimum permissible number of students to be allowed registration in a subject section will be decided by the
concerned Board of Studies.

d) Students may consult their tutors for registration guidelines.

e) Registration limits for students are given as under:

i. Firstyearand second year students may be allowed to register in at most 19 credit hours during fall and spring semesters.
ii, Students of third year and beyond may be allowed to register in at most 22 credit hours during fall and spring semesters.
iii. Atmost8 credit hours during summer semester.

f) Registration will only be allowed in a subject if the prerequisites, ifany, of this subject have been completed successfully.

g) Registration in a subject section will be closed if the maximum permitted number of students has registered in it.

h) Asubject section will be closed if less than the minimum numbers of students register in that section. Such students who have been denied
registration due to a closure of a section may add some alternate subject(s) during add and drop period.

i)  Duringsummer semester, selected subjects will be offered in accordance with departmental policy for summer semester.

6.0 Curriculum and Classification of Subjects
a) The curriculum, subject identification numbers, the credit hours allocated to each subject and detailed syllabus shall be according to the
proposals made by the Board of Studies and the Board of Faculty concerned and approved by the Syndicate on the recommendations of
the Academic Council.

   

100 Years of Exc


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

b) Subjects are classified as:

c) "Theory" wherein the primary mode of teaching shall be lectures given by teachers supplemented by home assignments. For the purpose
of these regulations, subjects of this type shall be referred to as Type-A;

b) "Practical" wherein the primary mode of teaching shall be experiments, studio laboratory, designs, drawings, assignments and projects
conducted/executed by students as specified in the syllabus. For the purpose of these regulations, subjects of this type shall be referred to
as Type-B;

c) "Comprehensive Projects" wherein students engage in design and development of a project under direct supervision of teachers in a
laboratory/studio/workshop/industry, spread over one or two regular semesters in an academic year. For the purpose of these regulations,
subjects of this type shall be referred to as Type-C.

7.0 Type-A Subjects Evaluation and Contact Hours

a) In Type-A subjects, there shall be a mid-term examination of at least one hour duration and a comprehensive final examination of at least
one anda half hour duration. These examinations shall carry 30 and 40 percent weight, respectively. The comprehensive final examination
will include 20% questions from pre-mid term syllabus. The teacher shall schedule additional assessment instruments such as quizzes,
assignments, presentations, seminars, group discussions, field study reports etc., as specified in the syllabus or as determined by the
teacher. These assessment instruments shall carry the remaining 30% weight of the subject.

b) There shall be one contact hour per week during Fall and Spring semesters and two contact hours per week during Summer semester for
each credit hour assigned to Type-A subjects.

8.0 Type-B Subjects Evaluation and Contact Hours
a) In Type-B subjects, each Experiment, Studio work, Jury Presentation, Design, Drawing, Project or Assignment shall be considered as an
independent assessment instrument. Cumulative performance in all independent assessment instruments shall form the basis for
evaluating a student.
b) There shall be two to three contact hours per week during Fall and Spring semesters and four to six contact hours per week during Summer
semester for each credit hour assigned to Type-B subjects.

9.0 Type-C Subjects Evaluation and Contact Hours
a) In Type-C subjects, each exercise, project or assignment shall be assessed for process during its life time (Continuous Assessment) while
the end product shall be assessed, right after its submission, through Viva-Voce /Jury examination (Terminal Assessment).
b) Continuous Assessment and Terminal Assessment of Type-C subjects may carry 60 and 40 percent weight, respectively.
c) External Examiners/Jurors shall be involved in the assessment of all Type-C subjects.
d) There shall be two to four contact hours per week during Fall and Spring semesters for each credit hour assigned to Type-C subjects.

10.0 Award of Letter Grades
a) The subject teacher, having interacted with the students, taught them and having assessed them over the semester, shall award letter
grades to the students. Chairman of the concerned degree awarding department will be consulted while finalizing the letter grades. Letter
grade in each Type-A subject shall be awarded on a Relative Scale whereas, letter grade in Type-B and Type-C subjects may be awarded
onan absolute scale if deemed fit by the subject teacher.
b) Following steps in awarding letter grades on a relative scale may be followed:
i. Minimum marks threshold linked to content mastery shall be established for award of a passing letter grade. Students earning marks
below this threshold shall be awarded "F" grade,
ii, Expected maximum marks threshold shall also be established. Student(s) crossing the maximum threshold, if any, will be awarded
“At” grade. The grade points of “A+” and “A” are same. As such, it is expected that only exceptional students demonstrating
outstanding results are given recognition by award of this grade.

167

100 Years of Excellence


Es Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

iii. Students earning marks between the maximum and minimum thresholds are listed in descending order of merit and the average and
standard deviation is computed,

iv. Passing letter grades are awarded according to the table given below, with "A" being the highest passing grade and "D" being the
lowest passing grade.

v. The cluster of students falling within half standard deviation of average marks may be graded as “C+” or “B-“;

vi. Other passing letter grades may be awarded on the basis of clusters of students within narrow ranges for a population less than 100;
Or on anormal curve basis if the population of students is more than 100;

vii. Itis not essential that every class should have all letter grades awarded, thatis, itis possible that a class does not have any student
below the minimum threshold; Or in another scenario in which no student, in the opinion of the instructor, is eligible for the award of “A”
grade. There may be cases where no student qualifies for some intermediate grade.

viii. An upper limit on percentage of students in a subject who can earn a particular passing grade may be placed, if required.

c) Theletter grades and their corresponding grade points (GP) are given in the table below:
Table
Letter Grades & Corresponding Grade Points

At A A- B+ B B- C+ Cc C- D+ D F Ww WF IP
40 | 4.0 3.7 3.3 3.0 27 2.3 2.0 17 1.3 1.0 0 - - - -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

d) Subjects repeated to improve grades, excluding "W" or "WF" grades, will be shown on the transcript with a suffix"R".
e) The subject teacher may award an “F” grade to a student if he is convinced, while checking the answer script of mid-term or final
examination that the student has cheated. The subject teacher will give opportunity to the student to defend himself before award of this “F”

 

grade.
11.0 Result Matters GPA= YGr, x CH) / > CH;
11.1 Result Computation Method i=1 i=1

The Grade Point Average (GPA) and Cumulative Grade pointAverage (CGPA) shall be computed according to the following formula

CGPA = dior, x CH) / > CH,
i=1 i=1

where nis the number of subjects in the semester for which GPAis being computed.

where mis the number of total subjects covered in all semesters up to the semester for which CGPAis to be computed.

11.2 Authority to Compute Results
Grade Points (GP) in each subject, Semester Grade PointAverage and Cumulative Grade PointAverage of each student shall be computed and
notified by the Controller of Examinations at the end of each semester.

12.0 Award of "W" ,"WF", “I” and "IP" Grades
12.1 Withdrawal (“W” Grade)
a) Astudent may be allowed to withdraw from a subject in which he is registered. Applications (Form 1) to withdraw from a subject shall be
entertained latest up to the 6" study week during Fall and Spring semesters and up to 3” study week during Summer semester. Withdrawn
subjects shall appear in the transcript with a letter grade "W” and shall not be used in computation of GPA. In the transcript, subjects repeated

168

100 Years of Exc

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

after withdrawal will not be suffixed with a"R".
b) _Ifastudent withdraws from a subject, which he is repeating, the previous grade earned will be retained in computation of CGPA and in assessing
degree completion requirements.

12.2 Forced Withdrawal (“WF” Grade)

a) Astudent registered in a subject may not be permitted to continue due to shortage of attendance or other disciplinary action. Such students
shall be awarded a “WF” (Forced Withdrawal) grade. It shall appear in the transcript as such and shall not be used in computation of GPA.
Subjects repeated after forced withdrawal will not be suffixed with “R’”.

b) Ifa student is withdrawn from a subject, which he is repeating, the previous grade earned will be retained in computation of CGPA and in
assessing degree completion requirements.

c) Astudent who does not drop a subject nor appears in any assessment instrument will not be eligible for “WF” grade and will be awarded an
“F” grade.

12.3 Incomplete “I” Grade

A student, who because of illness or any other acceptable fails to complete the required instruments in any subject may be awarded an "I"
(Incomplete) grade as an interim grade. Students having less than 50% attendance will not be eligible for award of this grade. This grade shall appear
in the transcript temporarily until itis replaced by the actual grade and will not be treated as "F" grade. The student receiving such a grade shall make
up the unfinished portion of his subject to the satisfaction of the faculty member who awarded this grade, and is given a letter grade as per regulation
10 at the discretion of the faculty member without prejudice to the previous grade "I". In case, the student fails to complete the unfinished portion
within the following semester his "I" grade would be converted to "F" grade by the Controller of Examinations. The responsibility for completing the
unfinished portion and satisfying the faculty member lies with the affected student.

12.4In Progress “IP” Grade

a) Type “C’” subjects, like theses, projects, studio work etc., spread over more than one semester may be graded as "IP" until completion of
these subjects. This grade shall be recorded in the transcript and will not be treated as "F" grade.

b) Each portion of a Type “C” subject spread over two semesters may have been prescribed different nomenclature and different subject
code. First portion of such a subject may be graded as “IP” upon completion, if the department decides to award the final letter grade upon
completion of the second portion.

c) _ Itshallappearin the transcriptas such and shall not be used in computation of GPA. Grades assigned in the semester in which the subjects
are completed will be used in computation of Semester GPAwith total credit hours of the subjects being counted for this purpose.

13.0 Repetition of Subjects
a) Students are permitted to repeat subjects to improve their grades in a semester within their maximum credit hours registration limit.
b) Separate repetition of Type B part or Type Apart of a subject, which is combination of Type Aand Type B, is permitted.
c) Incase of repetition of a subject, the new grade earned shall replace the previous grade, whether high or low in calculation of CGPA.

14.0 Probation and Separation
14.1 Academic Probation
Astudent will be placed on academic probation if his CGPA falls below 2.0 after any semester.
14.2 Separation
a) Astudent will be separated from the University if he remains on probation for a number of consecutive semesters as per schedule given
below:
First year students as defined in these regulations: Two consecutive semesters. Advantage of repetition during summer, falling in
between or after the two regular semesters on probation, being given to the student.
Second year students as defined in these regulations: Three consecutive semesters. Advantage of repetition during summer, falling
in between or after the two regular semesters on probation, being given to the student.
b) Students after completing their second year as defined in these regulations will not be separated on account of academic probations. 169

100 Years of Excellence


Es Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

c) Astudent would be separated from the University if he requires extension beyond one year in the maximum permissible period for
completion of degree requirements.

d) Students who do not register in any subject during their first semester after admission will be separated from the University.

e) Students have the option to freeze or skip a semester by not registering in any subject during that semester (other than first semester).
However, they will be separated if they do not register in any subject in a semester without intimating their decision to the Students Section.

14.3 Disposal of Separated Students
a) Separated students can apply to the Vice-Chancellor for re-admission. If their application is accepted, Examination branch will transfer
subjects from the previous registration in accordance with the prescribed rule and assign them to an Entry Session for computing their
maximum degree duration. They will be allotted new registration number.
b) Are-admitted student will be required to pay the admissible dues for one extra year even if he completes his degree requirements with his
original entry session or a semester later.
c) Are-admitted student will not be granted second re-admission ifhe is separated again from the University.

15.0 Changing Discipline after Admission

a) student, after first year of study at the University, may opt for change in discipline. The minimum admission merit of the discipline, being
opted for, must be equal or lower than the merit of the opting student at the time of his admission.

b) The student opting to change his discipline after first year must apply to the Vice-Chancellor through his Chairman and the Dean.
Acceptance shall depend on the availability of seats in the opted discipline.

c) Onacceptance of his request, the student shall start afresh with credit being given for any University core subjects studied in the first year in
the original discipline. He will be issued new registration number and his maximum permissible duration count will start afresh.

d) Students cannot opt for change in discipline after their second year at the University.

16.0 Award of Degree and Merit Position

a) Students, who are eligible for the award of degree, are required to submit a Degree Requirements Completion Form (Form 2) to their
respective chairman for onward submission to the Controller of Examinations. Degree status would be decided only after receipt of this
form.

b) Students shall qualify for the award of undergraduate degree if they earn a minimum CGPA of 2.0 and they satisfy the following conditions:
i. Have no compulsory outstanding subject with "W", "WF", "I" and "F" grades during all semesters of a degree program.
ii, Have repeated elective subjects in which “W”, “WF” or “F” grades have been earned or have studied alternate elective subjects in lieu

of these to fulfill the credit hours requirement.

iii. Have completed the prescribed number of credit hours.

c) Students shall qualify fora "Degree with Honours" if they satisfy the following conditions:
i. Have earned a CGPAof 3.70 or above out of amaximum of 4.00.
ii, Have not repeated a subject.
iii. Have not withdrawn from a subject with a'"W" or"WE" grade; and
iv. Havenotearnedan'F' grade in any core or elective subject during the course of study.

d) Medals and merit positions will only be awarded to students having earned degree with honours. The awards will be based on the CGPA
earned at the time of graduation. Comparison will be made within the students of same entry session graduating in the minimum
permissible duration. Immigrating and re-admitted students will not be eligible for any medal or merit position.

17.0 Dean's Honour Roll
At the end of each semester, there shall be a "Dean's Honour Roll" of students earning a Semester GPA of 3.7 and above without any "W" or "WF" or
"F" grade while registered in at least 15 credit hours during that semester. There shall not be any Dean's Honour Roll for summer semester result.

 

100 Years of Exc


www.uet.edu.pk

 

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

18.0 Grievance Committee and Grade Change Request
a) The examination regulations provide sufficient transparency by mandating teachers to show result of all assessment instruments including
final examination to their students. Sufficient time is provided to students, even after finalization of the award list, to point out errors and
omissions and get them rectified. As such, the following aspects will neither be reviewed nor discussed while interpreting the provisions of
this regulation:
i. Marks awarded by the teacher in any of the assessmentinstruments.
ii. Letter grade thresholds.

b) Astudent has two options for redress of grievances. The first option can only be exercised during the semester and the second option after
declaration of semester results.

i. During the semester: A student may file a grievance petition with the Chairman of his department during a semester if sufficient
opportunity is not provided to him to review the assessment instruments as prescribed in the Examination regulations. The Chairman
will form a 3 member departmental Committee headed by a senior faculty member to redress the grievance. It will be mandatory on
the Committee to hear both sides (student and the teacher), and recommend corrective action within 5 days after filing of the
grievance. The recommendations of the Committee will be binding on the teacher as well as the student.

ii. After Declaration of Semester Result: A student may submit a Grade Change Request (Form 3) to the Chairman's Office stating the
specific reason for change in grade. Grade Change requests must be submitted no later than one week after the first grade was
posted or within the first week of the following semester, whichever is later. The request will be routed to the concerned faculty
member. Normally, the only person who can change a grade is the faculty member who gave the grade, however, in case that faculty
member is no longer available or cannot be reached, the department chairman has the authority to evaluate the situation and change
agrade, if required. When a grade is to be changed, the chairman shall forward the case to the Dean with justification for change. The
result will be modified after approval of the Dean.

19.0 Students Registration and Hostel Accommodation

a) Regular and casual students may register for subjects being offered during that semester within their maximum permissible credit hours
registration limit.

b) The student may add or drop subjects within first two weeks of Fall and Spring semesters and within first week of Summer semester.

c) Astudent, whois fulfilling requirements of an “I” grade in a semester, is not required to register in the subject in which he has been awarded
an “I” grade.

d) Casual students will not be eligible for hostel accommodation. However, foreign casual students may be allowed to continue staying in
hostels by the Senior Warden after approval of the Vice-Chancellor.

20.0 Deferment of Studies (Freezing)
a) Students enrolled in the first semester cannot apply for deferment.
b) There shall be no relaxation in the maximum degree duration period for students seeking deferment.
c) Astudent may defer studies for at most two consecutive regular semesters, for medical or other circumstances beyond his control, with
summer semester not being counted. In such cases, the student shall apply (Form 4) to the Chairman concerned, at least 15 days before
the commencement of the semester, for approval of deferment by the concerned Dean. CAC, after approval, shall notify deferment for a
specified period.

21.0 Attendance Requirements
a) Students failing to maintain a minimum attendance of 75% in a subject during a semester shall be awarded a "WF" grade. Chairman in
consultation with the respective Dean shall review cases of students seeking relaxation of up to 10% in attendance requirement. The relaxation
shall be allowed after approval by the Dean. Any relaxation in excess of 10% shall be forwarded to the Vice-Chancellor through the respective
Dean for final decision.
b) Leaves availed by a student after approval of the Chairman will not be counted towards attendance.
c) Students eligible for award of an “I” grade will be awarded such a grade only if their attendance is at least 50%.

171

100 Years of Excellen


Es Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

EXAMINATION REGULATIONS

1.0 Evaluation Process of Subjects
1.1 Evaluation of Type-A Subjects
a) Formid-term and final examinations of Type-A subjects, the teacher of a subject shall set the question paper of that subject, supervise its
examination, mark the answer books and prepare the award list. Any teaching resource provided to assist a teacher cannot be tasked to
mark mid-term and final examinations answer books.

b) Every teacher of Type-A subjects shall return the marked quizzes, assignments, etc., and mid-term examination scripts to the students for
review, and in case of presentations, etc., communicate the earned score to the student within one week of the event. Mid-term scripts,
however, would be recovered from the students and deposited with the Chairman concerned.

c) Atthe end of scheduled teaching period of a semester but before commencement of the final examinations, the teacher shall prepare and
display the Interim Award List. Composition, display, correction, and reporting requirements/procedures of Interim Award List shall be as
prescribed in these rules.

d) Teachers would mark the final examination scripts, and prepare and display complete Award List, excluding letter grades, within one week
after the examination of the subject.

e) The students may be shown the final examination marked scripts before submission of Comprehensive Award List to the Controller of
Examinations, if they so desire.

1.2 Evaluation of Type-B Subjects

a) Teachers of Type-B subjects shall keep all students informed of their performance at every stage in each category of task performed.
Immediately after the end of each stage/assessment event, teachers shall prepare and communicate the earned score to the student in
that stage/assessment event.

b) Atthe end of semester and before the end of examination period, teachers shall prepare and display the Interim Award List. Content and
other requirements regarding Interim Award List shall be as prescribed in these rules.

c) After following the procedures and requirements regarding Interim Award List, the teachers shall prepare and display complete Award List,
excluding letter grades, within one week after the end of scheduled teaching period.

1.3 Evaluation of Type-C Subjects

a) Teachers of Type-C subjects shall keep all students informed of their performance at every stage in each category of task performed.
Immediately after the end of each stage/assessment event, teachers shall prepare and display a list of earned score of each studentin that
assessmentinstrument.

b) Atthe end of first of the two semesters of a Type-C subject and before the end of examination period, teachers would prepare and display
an Intermediate Award List. This list would be similar to the Comprehensive Award List of Type-A and Type -B subjects except that letter
grade assignment based upon this list will be limited to "IP" Grade.

c) Atthe end of second of the two semesters of a Type-C subject and before the end of examination period, teachers shall prepare and display
the Interim Award List. Content and other requirements regarding Interim Award List shall be as prescribed in these rules.

d) Within one week of the conduct of Viva-voce/Jury examination, internal and external examiners shall prepare and display complete Award
List excluding the letter grades.

1.4 Interim Award List
a) _ InterimAward List would show the percentage as well as weighted score of each stage/assessment instrument of that subject including the
mid-term examination in case of Type-Asubjects.
b) The Interim Award List will be communicated to all students via electronic means or/and displayed on the Notice Boards for at least two
working days to permit students to point out any anomalies, errors, omissions, etc., in the list.
c) The teachers shall give due consideration to any anomalies, errors, omissions, etc., in the list pointed out by any student, and may correct

172

100 Years of Exc

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

the list.
d) Any further processing of the list shall be carried out only after it has been displayed on the Notice Boards for the mandatory period and
decisions regarding all matters pointed out by students have been taken.

1.5 Comprehensive Award List
The Comprehensive Award List shall show, for each student:
a) The weighted combination of the Interim Award and Final Examination award in percentage format and Letter Grades corresponding to the
comprehensive award.
b) Sealed Comprehensive Award List will be sent to the Controller by the concerned teacher with a copy to the Chairman for record only.

1.6 Delay in Submission of Results

After passage of six working days from the date of scheduled final examination period, Controller of Examinations will submit a report to the Vice-
Chancellor on the status of submitted results. The Vice-Chancellor will decide on the disposal of teachers failing to submit their results within the
prescribed time.

2.

o

Conduct of Examination of Type A Subjects Under Semester System
2.1 Question Papers
a) All question papers are set by the concerned teacher.
b) The paper setters, who also ensure their correctness, supervise the photocopying or duplicating of the papers.
c) Question papers are kept in the safe custody of the teacher till the start of examination. He shall bear legal and moral responsibility for
the safe custody and secrecy of the question papers.

2.2 Reference Material during Tests/Examinations
Prior to class tests, mid-term/final examination, the subject teacher announces such books, notes or other material that can be referred to by the
students during the test or examinations. All other books, notes, papers, etc., are withdrawn from the examinees.

2.3 Examination Schedule
The Chairman of the department publishes the mid-term and final examination schedule at least two weeks before start of the examinations in
accordance with the University's academic calendar.

2.4 Conduct of Mid-Term and Final Examinations
a) The Chairman shall depute teachers or staff as Deputy Superintendent and Invigilators for the conduct of examinations. The number
of invigilators will be estimated on the basis of one invigilator for every twenty-five students.
b) The subject teacher shall be the Superintendent for the conduct of examination. The Superintendent shall ensure the following:
i. Thatall answer books used in the examination are signed or initialed. The teacher may require the students to answer on the question
paper itself. No other answer bookis to be used in this case.
ii. Answer books are issued to the invigilators 5 minutes before the commencement of the examination and retrieved at the end of the
examination.
iii. The absentee report, if any, is prepared and forwarded to the Chairman's office at the end of each examination.

2.5 Teachers or Staff acting as invigilators are detailed by the respective Chairman. They ensure the following:
a) Thatthe students are identified through means such as University identification card ora valid photo ID.
b) Thatthe students are warned against the use of unfair means and have been advised to surrender mobile phones, notes, papers or other
unauthorized material before the commencement of the examination.

173

100 Years of Excellen


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

c) Thatthe students are not allowed to talk with or copy from other students during the examination.

d) Thatnostudentis allowed tojoin the examination thirty minutes after its commencement.

e) That no student is allowed to submit the answer sheet and leave the examination room within thirty minutes of commencement of
examination. Visits to toilets are carefully controlled.

f) That the question papers and answer books of a student detected using unfair means or assisting another candidate, are taken away and
the matter is reported to the respective Chairman. The superintendent records all available evidence to be used as proof later on.

g) That the students write their registration numbers, name and class on the front cover of each additional answer sheet used. If more than
one answer bookis used, these are stapled together.

2.6 The subject teachers, being the Superintendent(s), shall:
a) Supervise distribution of the question papers to the students according to the schedule published.
b) Be available in the examination center during examination of their subject to clarify any query and to collect answer books after the
examination. In case of multiple examination centers, they must remain available near the centers.
c) Report any incidence of unfair means or disobedience or hooliganism detected in the examination center to the Controller of Examinations
for processing under rules governing use of unfair means during examinations. The report must include collected evidence (if any), written
and signed statement by the invigilator detecting the incidence and of the candidate(s) found involved.

3.0 Disposal of Answer Scripts
Answer sheets of mid-term and final examinations will be stored in the respective department for one semester after declaration of result of a
semester. The sheets would be disposed off subsequently in a suitable manner as decided by the concerned Chairman.

4.0 Transfer of Credits of Subjects For Migrated Students

a) Students from other HEC approved universities and programs accredited by PEC or PCATP, may apply for migration to this University in
the same programs, in accordance with University's Migration Rules. Following conditions shall govern transfer of subjects (credits) to the
University for subjects studied elsewhere. Subjects that do not satisfy these conditions shall not be transferred nor given any credit:

i. | The subject must correspond to a subject offered by UET or be deemed equivalentin depth and intensity.

ii. The student must have earned at least “40%” marks in case of absolute grading system or a minimum of "C" grade or higher in a letter
grading system similar to the one in this University. In case of any other grading system, the department shall decide with the above
minimum limits in perspective. In case, both letter grades and marks are mentioned on the transcript, only letter grade will be considered for
the purpose of transfer of semester credits.

b) The accumulative credits accepted for transfer in any program should not exceed one-half (50%) of the total credits required to complete
that particular program, in any case.

c) The credits transferred are counted towards the degree requirements of the student. However, GPA of transferred credits shall not be
counted towards the calculation of CGPA, and that only “Transferred” shall be written against those subject(s) in which transfer of credits
was allowed. In addition, migrated students shall neither be eligible for a merit position nor degree with Honours.

d) Migrating student may be deficient in subjects as compared to the class which he has joined. Such a student shall repeat these subjects. In
case, he is studying a particular subject for the first time, it will not be classified as repeated subject for him.

5.0 Transfer of Credits of Subjects For Newly Admitted/Re-admitted Students
(Newly admitted students in this clause implies those students who have been permanently separated from UET and have secured admission as
fresh students after completing the UET admission process)
"Subjects" and "grades of subjects", studied during the previous five years from the date of re-admission, in which they have earned a grade of "C" or
above shall stand transferred and the students shall be placed in the semester recommended by the department. In addition, re-admitted or newly
admitted students availing this facility shall neither be eligible for a merit position nor degree with Honours.

174

100 Years of Ex

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

6.0 Transfer of Credits of Subjects For Double Degree Students
Credit hours of subjects, as recommended by the concerned department, in which they have earned a minimum of 40% marks or a minimum grade of
"C" (as the case may be) during their first degree program within the University shall stand transferred and they shall be placed in the semester
recommended by the department. The credits transferred are counted towards the degree requirements of the student. However, GPA of transferred
credits shall not be counted towards the calculation of CGPA, and that only “Transferred” shall be written against those subject(s) in which transfer of
credits was allowed. In addition, double degree students shall neither be eligible for a merit position nor a degree with Honours.

7.0 Transfer of Credits of Subjects For Exchange Students
a) Following conditions shall govern transfer of subjects (credits) to the University for subjects studied elsewhere as Exchange students under an

HEC or University approved scheme. Subjects that do not satisfy these conditions shall not be transferred nor given any credit:

i. The subject must correspond to a subject offered by UET or be deemed equivalentin depth and intensity.

ii. The student must have earned at least “40%” marks in case of absolute grading system or a minimum of "C" grade or higher in a letter
grading system similar to the one in this University. In case of any other grading system, the department shall decide with the above
minimum limits in perspective. In case, both letter grades and marks are mentioned on the transcript, only letter grade will be considered for
the purpose of transfer of semester credits.

b) The credits transferred are counted towards the degree requirements of the student. However, GPA of transferred credits shall not be counted
towards the calculation of CGPA, and that only “Transferred” shall be written against those subject(s) in which transfer of credits was allowed. In
addition, such students shall neither be eligible for a merit position nor degree with Honours.

8.0 Exemption of Credits For Students Admitted on the Basis of B.Sc. Engineering Technology or Equivalent Degree
Subjects studied in the first two semesters of the engineering program in which the student has been admitted shall stand transferred. The credits
transferred will be counted towards the degree requirements of the student. However, GPA of transferred credits shall not be counted towards the
calculation of CGPA, and that only “Transferred” shall be written against those subject(s) in which transfer of credits has been allowed. In addition,
such students shall be eligible for a merit position and degree with Honours if they so qualify.

9.0 Final Transcript Issued by Examination Branch

Examination Branch will issue a final transcript after the student completes all the degree requirements. The recording of result on final transcript will

be according to the following:

i. The transcript will be chronological showing all subjects registered in each semester and corresponding grades earned.

ii, All‘l’ grades would be replaced by the grade earned or “F” grade if requirements have not been completed.

iii. “IP” grade in a subject or sequel of subjects would be shown in the semester(s) in which it has been awarded. It will not be counted towards
computation of GPA or CGPAin these semesters.

iv. The semester grade awarded in a subject, which is a follow up of a subject or subjects in which “IP” has been awarded in previous semesters,
would be counted towards computation of semester GPA and CGPA by considering the total credit hours assigned to the subject or a sequel of
subjects.

v. Elective subjects in which the student has earned “F” grades may not be counted towards computation of CGPA if alternate elective subjects
have been studied in their place. This will not be automatic. The student must apply to the Controller Examination to avail this facility.

10.0 Results Declaration by Examination Branch
The student would be able to see his subject grades on the Examination portal as soon as those have been submitted by the teachers to the
Controller Examinations. The status of these results would be “Provisional”. When all results have been received by the Branch, official results would
be declared within one week following due process of scrutiny and verification. The status of these results would change to “Confirmed” after
declaration.
175

100 Years of Excellence


Es Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

MIGRATION REGULATIONS

1. Subject to the provision of Regulations, the Vice-Chancellor may admit a student to the University by migration from other Universities or Institutions
according to these regulations.

2. The grounds for migration shall constitute changes in circumstances, which render it practically impossible for the student to continue his studies in
his Parent University or Institution.

3. No migration shall be allowed into UET, its constituent campuses/ college and into its affiliated institutions from within its constituent campuses/
college and affiliated campuses/ colleges.

4. Admission by migration shall not be allowed ordinarily after the expiry of three weeks from the commencement of the session.

5. Only those students who possess academic record comparable with admission requirements of this University (for their particular Entry Session)
shall be considered for admission by migration subject to availability of seats in the concerned department.

6. Nostudent shall be admitted to First Year and Final Year classes by migration. In terms of semesters, migration is only permissible into the 3°, 4" or 5"
semester.

7. Amigrated students required to complete at least 50% curriculum, required for award of the degree, at UET in order to be eligible for UET's degree.

8. Nostudent shall be admitted by migration from a University or Institution in Pakistan unless he produces a "No Objection Certificate" and Good Moral
Character Certificate to the effect that the student has not been debarred from taking University examinations and suspended or not expelled or
tusticated from the University or Institution from which he intends to migrate and that no disciplinary action is pending against him.

9. The applicant must have appeared in the Combined Entry Test conducted by UET Lahore of the session in which he intends to migrate. Or, he must
have appeared in the Entry Test of parentinstitution.

10. The applicant must have passed Intermediate (Pre-Engineering) or its equivalent with at least 60% marks and 50% weighted aggregate based on
70% weight to Intermediate marks and 30% weight to Entry Test marks.

11. Anapplication for admission by migration shall be accompanied by a detailed marks certificate showing the examinations passed by the applicant at
his parent university. The applicants required to be in good standing with a minimum CGPAof 2.5 out of 4.0.

12. Nostudent admitted to any University or Institution against seats reserved for special categories shall be eligible for admission by migration.

13. No applicant shall be admitted by migration who possesses less than 1% of admission merit of this university as well as the sub-campuses of that
year in which he was admitted in his parentinstitution.

14. Nostudent shall be migrated to the University who carries any of his papers of his previous years.

15. No applicant shall be admitted by migration whose parent institution is within the same city. However, he may be considered for admission by
migration to sub-campuses of this university.

16. Migration application will only be entertained on the prescribed application form, obtainable from UET website https:/Avww.uet.edu.pk Migration form
fee of Rs. 1,000/- will be paid at the time of submission of application form.

17. Migration fee shall be charged from the candidates allowed to migrate to the University from other Universities/Institutions under the rules at the
following rates:-

|. Rs: 500,000/- (Rupees five hundred thousand only) in case of candidates of Universities/ Institutions abroad.
Il. Rs: 400,000/-(Rupees four hundred thousand only) from applicants admitted elsewhere in Pakistan on Self Finance Basis.

Ill. Rs: 50,000/- (Rupees fifty thousand only) per semester to be studied in University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore and its
campuses from the applicants not covered in the first two cases above.

Note: The genuine and deserving cases falling under category (Ill) mentioned above would be submitted to the Syndicate for waiver of the fee.

 

100 Years of Exc


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

 

CODE OF ETHICS

i Ts a
“ a
IA

at Sint ers
In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful

Whereas Allah enjoineth upon his men faithfully to observe their trusts and their covenants;
e — thatprofessional expertise is a sacred trust entrusted to those whom Allah in his magnificent bounty has endowed with this skill and knowledge;
e that every member of the profession shall appreciate and shall have knowledge as to what constitutes this trust and covenant and that a set of dynamic
principles derived from the Holy Quran shall guide this conductin applying his knowledge for the benefit of society,
It shall be incumbent upon the members of the professional community to subscribe to individually and collectively and to uphold the honour and dignity of their
profession:
1. “Allah commands you to render back your trusts to those to whom they are due, and that when you judge between people you judge with justice. Allah
admonishes you with whatis excellent.” (4:58)
e —Youshallbe honest, faithful and just, and shall not actin any manner derogatory to the honour, integrity or dignity of their profession.
2. “And |etnothatred ofa people incite you not to act equitably. Be just thatis nearer to observance of duty.” (5:8)
e — You shall not injure, maliciously, directly or indirectly the reputation or employment of another Engineer, nor shall you fail to act equitably while
performing professional duty.
3. “Give full measure and weightjustly and defraud not men of their things and act not corruptly in the land making mischief.” (11:85)
e You shall use your knowledge and skill of engineering for human welfare and render professional service and advice which reflects your best
professional Judgement.
4. “And swallow not up your property among your salves by false means, nor seek to gain access thereby to the judges, so that you may swallow up a part of the
property of men wrongfully while you know.” (2:188)
e —Youshallnot abuse you position or power, nor acceptillegal gratifications of any sort.
5. “Fulfil the obligations.” (5:1)
e You shall faithfully observe and fulfil all your obligations.
6. “And speak straight words.” (33:70)
e —Youshall express your opinion on professional or other matters in a frank, open and straight forward manner.
7. “Avoid most of suspicion for surely suspicion in some cases is sin; and spy not nor let some of you backbite others.” (69:12)
e — You shall notcriticize another professional's work without his knowledge nor malign, or injure his professional reputation.
8. “Yewho believe. Let not some men Among you laugh at others. It may be that the (latter) are better than the (Former); Nor let some women Laugh at others: It
may be that the (latter) are better than the (Former)” (49: 11)
e You shall not ridicule fellow professional nor let one professional discipline deride other disciplines or professions.
9. “Nor defame nor be sarcastic to each other. Nor call each other By (Offensive nicknames)” (49:11)
e —Youshall not directly or indirectly discredit other professionals nor assign (derogatory) epithets to their persons or work.
10. “And follow not that of which thou hast no knowledge. Surely the hearing and the sight and the heart, of all these it will be asked.” (17:36)
e Your professional advice shall be based on full knowledge of the facts and honest conviction, and you shall not write articles or advertise in self-
laudatory language or in any manner derogatory to the dignity of the profession.
11. “Oye who believe: Ifa wicked person comes to you with any news, Ascertain the truth lest Ye harm people unwittingly.” (49 :6)
e —Youshall ascertain facts before accepting them and shall not encourage or cause others to carry tales. Credulity is no credit.
12. “Andhelp one another in righteousness and piety and help not one another in sin and aggression and keep your duty toAllah.” {5:2)
e You shall help one another in upholding and doing what is right and shall not associate with those who transgress and those who indulge in unethical
practices.
13. “And forget not kindness among yourselves.” (2:237)
e —Youshall be kind and considerate to others and shall not fail to be co-operative and accommodating.
14. “And whose affairs are decided by counsel among themselves.” (62:38)
e Youshall decide matters of common professional interest by mutual consultation.
15. “And hold fast by the covenant of Allah all together and be not disunited.” (3:102)
16. “And obey Allah ad His apostle; And fall into no disputes Lest ye lose heart and reputation.” (8:40)
e — You shall strive individually and collectively to enhance the prestige of your profession by ordering your conduct in accordance with this Code of
Ethics and shall not be disunited.

 

 

 

177

100 Years of Excell


Es Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

CODE OF HONOUR

He must be loyal, faithful in his religious duties and respect the conviction of others in matters of religion.

He must be loyal to his country and refrain from doing anything which might lower its honour and prestige.

He must be truthful and honest in dealings with all people.

He must respect the elders and be polite to all, especially women, children, old people, the weak and helpless.
He must respect his teachers and others in authority in the University.

He must keep clean in all respects i.e. body, mind, speech, sport and habits.

He must help his fellow beings especially those in distress.

He must devote himself faithfully to his studies.

He must observe thrift and protect property.

Seon oo wo hy =

Prohibition of Smoking and Protection of Non-Smokers Health Ordinace 2002
The University requires adherence to the Prohibition of Smoking and Protection of Non-smokers Health Ordinance 2002. As such, smoking is stricktly
prohibited at all open and closed places within university premises and in university's transport.

Acts of Indiscipline Punishable Under University Rules

1. NoStudent shall:

i. Smokein the class room, laboratory, workshop, library, examination hall, convocation hall and during studio work or academic functions.

ii. Consume alcoholic liquor or other intoxicating drugs within the University Campus or a hall of residence or during the instructional, sports or
cultural tours, or survey camps, or enter any such place or attend any such tour or camp, while under the influence of such intoxicants.

iii. Organize or take part in any function within the University campus or a hall of residence, organize any club or society of students except in
accordance with the prescribed rules and regulations.

iv. Collect any money or receive donations or pecuniary assistance for or on behalf of the University or any University organization except with the
written permission of the Vice Chancellor.

v. Stage, incite or participate in any walkout, strike or other form of agitation against the University or its teachers and officers.

2. AStudentWho:

Commits a breach of any of the rules of conduct specified in these regulations, or

Disobeys the lawful order ofa teacher or other person in authority in the University, or

Habitually neglects his work or habitually absents himself from his classes without reasonable cause, or

Willfully damages University property or the property ofa fellow student or any teacher or employee of the University; or

Does not pay the fees, fines or other dues levied under the University ordinances rules and regulations, or

Does not comply with the rules relating to residence in the hostels or halls of residence or the rules relating to the wearing of uniform or academic

dress, or

g) Usesindecentlanguage, wears immodest dress, makes indecent remarks or gestures or behaves in a disorderly manner, or

h) Commits any criminal, immoral, or dishonorable act whether within the University campus or otherwise which is prejudicial to the interest of the
University.

BAaLFL

2a

Shall be guilty of an act of indiscipline and shall be liable for each such act to one or more of the penalties under the General Discipline Rules.

178

100 Years of Ex

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

AUTHORITIES TO CHECK INDISCIPLINE

1. Every Member of the Teaching Staff shall:
Have the powers and it shall be his duty to check disorderly or improper conduct or any breach of the rules by students occurring in any part of the
precincts of the University. Should such misconduct occur in room when the student is under the charge of a demonstrator, the latter shall report the
matter without delay to the Chairman of the Department.

2. The Librarian shall:
Be responsible for maintenance of order in the Library. In case of disorderly conduct or any breach ofrules, he may require the student so offending to
withdraw from the library for the remainder of the day and shall immediately report the offence to the Chairman of the Library Committee.

3. The Senior Warden/Warden and the Resident Tutor shall:
Be responsible for maintenance of order among the students in halls of residence or hostels.

4. The Director of Physical Education shall:
Be responsible for the maintenance of order among the students on or near the play grounds or while otherwise under his charge.

5. Committee of Discipline:
There is a Committee of Discipline to deal with serious cases of indiscipline. It consists of the following members as per University of Engineering an
Technology, Punjab Act V of 1974:

(a) Chairman to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor

(b) Two Professors to be nominated by the Academic Council

(c) Onemember tobe nominated by the Syndicate

(d) Director Students Affairs (Member/Secretary)

(e) Senior Tutor of the University; and

(f) Senior Warden of the University Hostels
|. The term of office of members of the Committee excluding ex-officio members shall be two years
ii. The quorum for a meeting of the Committee of Discipline shall be four members

The functions of this Committee are:
e@ — topropose Regulations to the Academic Council for the conduct of University Students, Maintenance of Discipline and breach of discipline; and
e@ — toperform such other functions as may be prescribed by Regulations

179

100 Years of Excellence


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

PENALTIES FOR ACTS OF INDISCIPLINE

The penalty or penalties imposed shall be appropriate and proportioned to the nature and gravity of the Act. The penalties which may be imposed and the
authority or authorities competent to impose each kind of penalty are specified below:

180

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PENALTY AUTHORITY COMPETENT TO IMPOSE THE PENALTY
a) | Exclusion for class room, Laboratory, Workshop or field work for the Teacher Incharge
periods concerned, for not more than four such consecutive periods
b) | Exclusion from the game or the Field for not more than one week Incharge of the Game
c) | Exclusion from Instructional or Sports Tour or Survey Camp Teacher Incharge or Head of Department / Chairman
d) | Exclusion from the Department for a period not exceeding two weeks Head of Department / Chairman
e) | Exclusion from the Library for not more than two weeks Chairman, Library Committee
f) | Exclusion from all classes or any Class in any Faculty for a period not Dean of the Faculty
exceeding two weeks
9) | Exclusion from the Hall of residence for a period not exceeding six months Resident Tutor
h) | Exclusion form the Hall of residence for a period not exceeding one year Senior Warden / Warden / Director Students Affairs
i) | Suspension or removal from a position of authority in a Hall of Residence Resident Tutor / Warden / Senior Warden
j) | Suspension or removal from a position of authority in the Students Union Director, Students Affairs
k) | Suspension or removal from a position of authority in the University Sports President Sports committee
|) | Cancellation or Remission of fee or University Scholarship Dean of the Faculty
m) | Fine upto Rs. 1,000/- Lecturer / Resident Tutor
n) | Fine upto Rs. 2,000/- Assistant Professor / Warden
0) | Fine upto Rs. 3,000/- Associate Professor
P) | Fine upto Rs. 5,000/- Chairman of Teaching Department/ Professor / Senior Warden
/ Director tudents Affairs.
q) | Fine without limit Dean of the Faculty
1) | Rustication from the University for a period not exceeding six months Associate Professor
8) | Rustication from the University for a period not exceeding one year Chairman of a Teaching Department / Professor / Committee
of Discipline
t) | Rustication for any period Dean of Faculty
u) | Expulsion from the University Committee of Discipline

 

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

GENERAL DISCIPLINE RULES RELATING TO STUDENTS

1. When acase against a studentis referred to the Committee of Discipline, the Committee may, if it deem fit, suspend the student from University Rolls
and/or direct him to vacate the Hall of Residence till it has taken a decision in the case.

2. The Vice Chancellor shall have the power to impose any of the penalties mentioned in "Penalties for Acts of Indiscipline" or to refer any case to the
Committee of Discipline.

3. A Teacher or officer mentioned in "Penalties for Acts of Indiscipline" in whose presence or in relation to whom an act of indiscipline is committed or
who obtains knowledge of such act on a report or otherwise, may deal with the case himself or ifin his view:
a) the case is one which can be more appropriately dealt with by another authority; or
b) apenalty or penalties severer than those which he is competent to impose are called for in the case; he shall follow the procedure specified
below:
Ifhe is not the Dean of the faculty he shall refer the case to the Dean who may deal with it himself or refer it to the appropriate authority.
ii. Ifheis the Dean of the Faculty, he shall refer it to the appropriate authority or the Committee of Discipline.

4. No Student shall be rusticated or expelled from the University, unless he has been allowed reasonable chance of replying to the accusation against
him.

5. Whenin the opinion of the Committee of Discipline, the penalty of rustication or expulsion is not called for in a case referred to it, it may impose any
other penalties mentioned in "Penalties for Acts of Indiscipline".

6. Whena Teacher or an Officer has imposed penalty/penalties on a student under "Penalties for Acts of Indiscipline”, the later shall not be liable to a
higher or an additional penalty unless the offending student has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposed action.

7. An appeal against the imposition of penalty may be made within a week's time to the teacher who imposed the penalty. In case the student is not
satisfied with his decision/revision he may appeal to the Chairman, Discipline Committee who shall place it before the Discipline Committee for its
consideration and decision within a maximum of six weeks to dispose of the case. A final appeal against the imposition of penalty may then be made
to the Committee as provided in Rule 11(i) ofthe General Discipline rules relating to students.

8. An appeal against a decision imposing a penalty mentioned in clauses (r) and (s) of "Penalties for Acts of Indiscipline" shall lie with a Committee
consisting of the Vice Chancellor and the Deans of Faculties. No appeal shall lie against a decision of an authority imposing a penalty other than that
mentioned in sub-rule (i) of this rule except on the ground that such authority has imposed a penalty which itwas not competent to impose.

9. Anappeal on the ground that an authority has imposed a penalty which it was not competent to impose shall lie to the Vice Chancellor. No appeal by a
student shall be entertained, unless it is presented within fifteen days from the date on which the decision is communicated to him provided that the
Vice Chancellor may for valid reason extent this period.

10. The Vice Chancellor or any teacher or officer to whom the Vice-Chancellor may delegate his powers may direct a student to pay compensation for
any loss of or damage to property belonging to the University or fellow student or to an employee of the University, caused by a willful act or gross
negligence of the student and if the student does not pay such compensation within a reasonable time, the Vice-Chancellor may expel him from the
University.

11. The Syndicate may for special reason re-admit a student rusticated or expelled from the university under these rules, if otherwise eligible.

181

100 Years of Excellence


Es Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

UG FEE REGULATIONS
1. Periods of fees and Other Charges

a) The fees and other charges are categorized as:
i. One-time payments at the time of admission
ii. Semester recurring fees
iii. Summer semester dues for students registering during summer semester

b) During each year of a student's stay at the University, all recurring fees are charged in two installments payable at the beginning of Fall and
Spring semesters.

c) Registration fee at the rate of: (i) Rs 2,000/- per credit hour for subsidized category, and (ii) Rs 7,000/- per credit hour for partially subsidized
category will be charged for subjects registered during the summer semester.

d) Atotal of 8 semesters or 10 semesters recurring fees are admissible to students graduating, respectively, from a four years degree program ora
five years degree program.

e) Students registering in subjects after completing 8 semesters or 10 semesters, respectively, from a four years degree program or a five years
degree program will not be required to pay the admissible semester dues but will, however, pay Rs 2,000/- per credit hour for the subjects
registered.

f) | Re-admitted students are required to pay the admissible dues for two extra semesters even if they complete their degree requirements with their
original entry session or a semester later. They will pay Rs 2,000/- per credit hour for the subjects registered beyond the two extra semesters for
which admissible dues have been paid by them.

g) Anadmission retention fee of Rs 5,000/- per semester will be charged from students who have deferred their studies or who have not registered
in any subjectin a semester. This fee will be over and above the total fee period admissible to such students.

h) The hostel charges are payable for the period of allotment, a part of semester being counted as full semester. Rent and electricity charges for
fans are payable on per semester basis. Electricity charges for room heaters are payable only during the winter season for four months.

2; Revision of Tuition Fees Rates
a) Thefee andother charges schedule (for four years) published in the prospectus will be applicable to the entry session of that year only.
b) Toaccountfor inflation, 12% increase in tuition fee and other charges may be incorporated each year.

8. Payment of Dues

a) Fee challan form would be available on-line in the student's login on Learning Management System (LMS) before commencement of the
semester.

b) The challan form shall show the amount payable by the due date and the amount payable after the due date.

c) Students are encouraged to pay their dues through electronic means as facilitated by HBL.

) Students will not be permitted to register in a semester if they do not deposit the semester dues in advance. Failing to pay the dues until the end

of 15 days add/ drop period, after commencement of the semester, will resultin missing the semester altogether.

e) Admission of student defaulting in payment of their dues until the end of add/ drop period may be cancelled. Such stdents will have to get
readmission after permission by the VC and on payment of all outstanding dues and the readmission fee.

f) Students whose names do not appear in LMS attendance roll will not be allowed to sit in the classes by the departments.

g) Cases of students who are externally sponsored will be dealt separately.

4. Refund of Securities
a) The University and library securities are refunded, after deduction of outstanding dues of the University or the library, when a student leaves the
University after completion of his degree.
b) The hosteland mess securities, after deduction of outstanding dues of the hostel, are refunded when a student leaves the hostel.

 

100 Years of Exc


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

5. Refund on Admission Cancellation
5.1 Admission Cancellation by Freshly Admitted Students
All dues paid by the student are refundable excluding the Admission Fee as per the following schedule:

ane

a) Full (100%) fee refund ifadmission cancelled up to 8" day.
b) Half (50%) fee refund if admission cancelled from 9" to 16” day.
c) No fee refund if admission cancelled from 17" day onward.

The count of days mentioned in the schedule for determining refund amount, would start from the date falling last from either the date of:
(i) convening of classes; or
(ii) _ initiation of registration by the University; or
(iii) the date of payment of admission dues by the studentin the bank.

5.2 Admission Cancellation by Other Students
+ The University security, library security, hostel security and mess securities are refunded when a student cancels his admission before
completion of his degree.
- The one-time deposit of US$ 7,000/- made by foreign students admitted under HEC SF scheme shall be refunded after deduction of months
availed at the university. The one-time deposit will be divided by 48 to determine monthly refund rate. For counting availed months, a portion of
amonth shall be counted as one full month.

5.3 All other dues and fees deposited shall not be refunded including migration fee charged from migrated students.

183

100 Years of Excellence


Es Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AND SCHOLARSHIP POLICY

1. Categories which are not eligible for Financial Assistance
“A2”,“S”, and “SI” categories are not eligible to apply for financial assistance from the University.

2. Financial Assistance in the form of Work & Study Model
Following categories are eligible to apply to the Office of FA&CS for financial assistance from the University in the form of up to 50% tuition waiver
through a Work and Study arrangement.
“At PNP LQ?" RY BY DPE" Y4" J" and 4”,

Decision of award will be made by the Director FA&CS on the bases of the credentials provided by the applicant. Awardees will be required to serve
the University for 10 hours per week during the semesters for which the award has been given. This service may be in the form of office work,
horticultural work, cleanliness work, environmental work, etc. The awardees will be attached with the offices of the Resident Officer (RO), Project
Director (PD), Security Officer (SO), Director Sports, Senior Warden, or another office as deemed appropriate by Director FA&CS.

3. Scholarships for PTAP and Cultural Exchange Scholars
International and Cultural Exchange students admitted under “H1” and “H4” category without financial support will be charged tuition fee of “A1”
category students. The Vice-Chancellor is authorized to give a scholarship in the form of a waiver of tuition fee up to 75% to selected Pakistan
Technical Assistance Program (PTAP) and Cultural Exchange scholars on the recommendation of FA&CS or In-charge Students’ Section.

4. Scholarships for Disabled Students and Baluchistan Domiciled Students
All charges categorized as fees chargeable by the University are waived for Baluchistan domiciled students and disabled students admitted under
“T’ category or “A1” category if they apply for the same to the office of FA&CS or In-charge Students’ Section.

5. Orphan Students Admitted Under “A1” Category and FATA Domiciled Students
a) Needy orphan students admitted under “A1” category may apply to Director FA&CS for full tuition waiver. Decision to award tuition waiver
or otherwise will be based on assessment of whether the student is needy or not.
b) FATA domiciled students will be awarded full tuition waiver at the time of admission, if they claim to be needy with required proof as
acceptable to the Office of FA&CS.

6. Merit Scholarships Policy
a) Merit scholarships are awarded in the form of full tuition waiver to students earning top positions for one semester following the semester in
which position has been earned as per the approved criteria. “A2”, “S” and “SI” categories are also eligible for the award of merit scholarship, if
they so qualify.
b) Students who have been awarded need based tuition waiver by UET are eligible for merit scholarships. However, need based tuition waiver will
be discontinued for the semester in which merit scholarship is admissible.
c) Students who have been awarded scholarships by external donors/agencies are not eligible for University merit scholarship.

7. Award of Multiple Financial Assistance/ Scholarships
Students are only eligible for the award of one scholarship ata time.
Orphan students admitted under “A1” category and students from Baluchistan and FATA are granted full tuition waiver by the University.
However, they are permitted to avail another need-based scholarship awarded by an external agency. If the external scholarship includes tuition
fee as its component, then full tuition fee will be recovered from the scholarship amount awarded to these students. However, if such an amount
is notincluded, then tuition waiver will be maintained.
Cases regarding tuition fee of orphan students availing HEC scholarship will be decided by the HEC Focal Person Office/HEC Need Based
Scholarship Committee.
Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education merit scholarships will be given to the awardees even if they are in receipt of a scholarship from

484 the University.

100 Years of Exc

 


 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

FEE STRUCTURE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBSIDIZED SUBSIDIZED
Eligible Categories ANB, Beth LeBe | Abial2s ae SHS8
| NON-RECURRING FEES (Payable at the time of admission)
1. la aa in First Year/ 2,000 10,000
2. University Registration Fee 1,000 4,000
8: University Security (Refundable) 1,000 1,000
4. Library Security (Refundable) 1,000 1,000
5. _ | Verification Fee 2,000 2,000
6. Email Registration Fee 200 200
Survey Camp Charges (Civil,
7. Transportation, Geological, Mining & CRP 5,600 5,600
only)
8. University Student Identity Card 500 500
ll SEMESTER RECURRING FEES
1. Tutorial Fee 100 100
2. Inter-University Tournament Fee 100 100
3. Magazine Fee 150 150
4. Medical Fee 500 500
5. Tuition Fee 40,320 134,400
6. Laboratory Fee 1,888 9,441
7. Examination Fee 1,120 1,120
8. Sports Fee 600 600
9. Hernbers ony Club Fees for Student 2,000 2,000
10. 3,000 for day scholars/ | 3,000 for day scholars
Facilities Charges 1,500 for hostel / 1,500 for hostel
residents residents
11. Internet Charges 1,800 1,800
12, Summer Semester Subject Registration Fee} 2,000 per credit hour 7,000 per credit hour

 

 

www.uet.edu.pk

 

Collection of Advance Tax by Educational Institutes

As per Finance Act 2020, UET Lahore is bound to withhold advance income tax from non-filers of income tax on amount of fee (inclusive of tuition and all
charges) exceeding Rs 200,000/- per annum at the rate of 5% of the total amount. This tax is charged in the dues challan of Spring semester each year.
Students whose guardians are residing abroad or are included in Active Tax Payers list may submit documentary evidence to get waiver from this advance
tax.

185

100 Years of Excellen


Es Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

UNDERGRADUATE FEE SCHEDULE FOR SESSION 2021

Applicable from 1* Semester (Fall 2021) until 8"/10" Semester (Spring 2025/26)

 

SUBSIDIZED (Rs) PARTIALLY SUBSIDIZED (Rs)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

First Semester (Fall) 57,278.00 169,911.00
Second Semester (Spring) 49,578.00 151,211.00
Third Semester (Fall) 49,578.00 151,211.00
Fourth Semester (Spring) 49,578.00 151,211.00
Fifth Semester (Fall) 49,578.00 151,211.00
Sixth Semester (Spring) 49,578.00 151,211.00
Seventh Semester (Fall) 49,578.00 151,211.00
Eighth Semester (Spring) 51,578.00 153,211.00
Total (8 semesters program) 406,324.00 1,230,388.00
Ninth Semster (Fall) 49,578.00 151,211.00
Tenth Semester (Spring) Total 49,578.00 151,211.00
(10 semesters program) 505,480.00 1,532,810.00

 

Hostel Fees Per Semester
Rs. 2,000/- charged as Refundable Hostel Security at the time of allotment

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cubicle (Fall/Spring) 5,788 / 6,460 8,028 / 8,700
Dormitory (Fall/Spring) 4,369 / 4,817 5,489 / 5,937
Summer Semester (July & 6,000 6,000
August)

 

186

100 Years of E LETS


www.uet.edu.pk

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021
Minimum Merit (as per previous formula) Summary 2020

Discipine [Campus [Category [Minimum Aggregate] [Discipline Campus] Category [Minimum Aggregate] [Discipline [Campus [Category [Minimum Aggregate]
Architectural Engineering LHR [At 76.1979021 | [Mechatronics Engineering LHR [At | 76.41608392_ | [Electrical Engineering Fsp |S 53.36888869
[Architectural Engineering LHR | A2_ | 6847534965 _| [Mechatronics Engineering LHR | A2 [| 68.29805105 | [Environmental Science Fsp | At_ | 5091859147
[Architectural Engineering LHR |S 56.11195652_| [Mechatronics Engineering LHR |S 5361311189 _| [Environmental Science FSD_| Atm | 63.00090009
Architecture LHR | At | _74.68216783__| [Metallurgical and Materials Engineering LHR | At [| _73.13968531 | Environmental Science Fsp | a2 | 5147318841
Architecture LHR | A2_ | 6368783422 _| [Metallurgical and Materials Engineering LHR |_A2 | 65:37674825 _| [Environmental Science FSD | AZM | 66.08163816
Architecture LHR |S 52.07660427 _| [Metallurgical and Materials Engineering LHR | _N 63.06678322__| [Mechatronics Engineering FSD | At | _67.55506093
Architecture LAR [_T 57.96818182__| [Metalurgical and Materials Engineering LHR [S$ 55.65909091__| [Mechatronics Engineering FSD_[ A2 | _57.63374126
[Automotive Engineering LAR [At | 73.26503497_ | [Mining Engineering LHR | At_[ _66.74143367_| [Mechatronics Engineering Fsd | S$ 5361311189
[Automotive Engineering LAR [Az | 63.50839161_| [Mining Engineering LHR [Az | 61.75454545_| [Textie Engineering FSD_|_At_| 6541468531
Bachelor of Business Administration LAR [a3 | 50.40944056 | [Mining Engineering LHR [_N 55.77167831_| |Textle Engineering FSD | A2 | 55.13808601
Bachelor of Business Information Technology| LHR | A3 | _50.76468531_| [Petroleum & Gas Engineering LHR | At_|_ 74.07097902 _| [Bio Medical Engineering NWL[ At_| 6496416084
(Chemical Engineering LAR [At | 76.02674825 _| [Petroleum & Gas Engineering LHR [AZ | 66.63618881 _ | [Bio Medical Engineering NWL_[ AGM [772749775
(Chemical Engineering LHR | A2 | _67.38199301_| [Petroleum & Gas Engineering LHR | N 63.14465812 _| |CivilEngineeting NWL_[ At_| 7035262238
(Chemical Engineering LHR | N 67.84300698_| [Petroleum & Gas Engineering LHR |S 53.13496503 _| |CivilEngineering NwL | P 7
(Chemical Engineering LHR |S 54,30055944_| [Physics LHR | At | 6665157343 _| |CivilEngineeting Nm |S 5158461538
(Chemistry LHR [At | 66.92482517 _| [Physics LHR | At-M | 63.90553555 _| |Computer Science Nw | At_| 6547902098
(Chemistry LAR | At-M | 72.30357785__| [Physics LHR | A2 | 61.52255245 _| Electrical Engineering NW At 67.0156177
(Chemistry LHR [a2 | 86.01713287_| [Physics LHR | A2M_[ 70.46059856_ | [Electrical Engineering nm |S. 53.83968531
(Chemistry LAR [AZM | 68.94430693_| [Physics LHR [S$ (65.47723881 _| [Mechanical Engineering NW | At_| 6845751748
(City and Regional Planning LAR [_At_| 7241751337 _| [PolymerEngineering LHR | At_[ 69.65716783_| [Mechanical Engineering nm |S 55:01625874
(City and Regional Planning LHR [_A2 | 62.26270053_| [PolymerEngineering LHR [AZ _|_57.87747253_| Computer Science RECT | At_| 6614737762
(City and Regional Planning LAR [_N 63.02115385 _| [Polymer Engineering LHR |S 87.1951049 | [Computer Science RECT | A2 | 6566016043
(City and Regional Planning LAR | T 57.67162406 _| [Product & Industrial Design LHR [At | 69.90387701 _ | [Electrical Engineering REcT | Ai | 6699020979
(Civil Engineering LHR | At 77.1958042_| [Product & Industrial Design LHR | A2__[ 5772713904 _| [Electrical Engineering RECT | A2 | _67.89475524
(Civil Engineering LHR | A2__| 70.28374126_| [Product & Industrial Design LHR |S 58.43618881_| |Industial and Manufacturing Engineering | RECT | At | _68.12797203
(Civil Engineering LHR | _N 72.07744755 _| | Transportation Engineering LHR | At 70:3297619__| [Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering | RECT | _A2 57.2270879)
(Civil Engineering LHR | P 61.116 Transportation Engineering LHR [AZ| 60.46276224 _| |Mechanical Engineering RECT | At_| _69.22465035
Civil Engineering LHR |S 50.52826087 _| | Transportation Engineering LHR |S 59,86870629_| |Mechanical Engineering RECT | A2 | 6453722222
[Computer Engineering LHR | At | 77.46905594__| [BioMedical Engineering Ksk_|_At_|_ 7294982517 _| [Mechanical Engineering RecT| S 58,76666667
(Computer Engineering LAR [Az | 70.91523402_| [BioMedical Engineering KSK_| AtM [| 82.63508101
[Computer Science LAR [At 74,6493007 __| [Bio Medical Engineering KSK | A2 | 55:08776224
Computer Science LHR AQ 67.71388889 Bio Medical Engineering KSK | A2-M 76.34410441_] LHR: Main Campus Lahore
Electrical Engineering LHR At 77.93076923 [Chemical Engineering KSK At 70.37395104_| KSK: New Campus (Kala Shah Kaku)
Electrical Engineering LHR | A2 | 70.08888889__| [Chemical Engineering KSK | A2 | 574237622] FSD: Faisalabad Campus
cesta Eghesy UR None —| congue Sees HSK [mT ara] NWL__Narowal Campus

lectrical Engineering : mputer Science . a
Electrical Engineering LHR | 0 | 6839444444 _| [Computer Science KSK_|_A2 | _67.95676923 | RCET: Rachna College of Engineering & Technology, Gujranwala
Electrical Engineering LHR | P 63319 Electrical Engineering KSK | At_ | 72.73150315
Electrical Engineering LHR |S 53.4493007_ | | Electrical Engineering KSK | A2_ | 64.56791045
[Environmental Engineering LHR AL 72.09912587 Electrical Engineering KSK P 62.964
Environmental Engineering LHR | A2 64:3222028 _ | Electrical Engineering Ksk |S 56.875
Environmental Engineering LAR |S 56,68531469_| [Environmental Science KSK | At_[_61.35223881
[Geological Engineering LAR [_At_| 6793723776 _| [Environmental Science KSK | AtM | 72.49941404
[Geological Engineering LHR [Az | _58.46118881_| [Environmental Science KSK | AZ | 5141958042
(Geological Engineering LHR |S 59,35565566_| [Environmental Science KSK | AZM | 7384934743
Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering | LHR | At | 73.38251748__| [Mechanical Engineering Ksk_|_At_|_ 73.26503497
industrial and Manufacturing Engineering | LHR | A2 | 6462037063 _| [Mechanical Engineering Ksk | A2_ | 6607222222
industrial and Manufacturing Engineering | LHR |S 67,96944444 | [Mechanical Engineering KSk |S 51.503663
Mathematics LHR |_At_|_67.74475524 | |Sofware Engineering «Sk | At | 73:00262238
Mathematics LHR | A2 62.3513986__| [Software Engineering KSK | A2 | 67.14143357
Mathematics LHR |S 51.39982517 _| [Software Engineering KSkK |S 61.82085561
Mechanical Engineering LAR [At | 79.46416084 | [Chemical Engineering FsD_| At | 68.99388112
Mechanical Engineering LHR [A2_|__71.77884615 _| [Chemical Engineering FSD_| A2 | 5651486014
Mechanical Engineering LAR [N | 6970210623 _| [Chemical Engineering FsD | S$ 57 80611111
(Mechanical Engineering LHR | 0 | _70.11944444 | [Electrical Engineering FsbD_| At | 69.80932836
(Mechanical Engineering LHR | P 60.732 Electrical Engineering FSD_| A2 | 50:58898601
[Mechanical Engineering LHR |S 54.21765734__| [Electrical Engineering rsp | P 57.461

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

187

 


wuueledupe Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ————

Seat Allocation Chart for Faculty of Electrical Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

om 2

30 ° m sm m m =m 29 oO ° 2 ao o Q a

gS S|/#8 / 8 | *8 | 78 | 58 ee | § g m g g a z =
Open Merit(Punjab)- | aj 90 60 50 40 44 2 | 120 | 7 40 4 | 43 15 2 | 679
Subsidized
Open Merit (Punjab) - 4
Subsidized AM 6 | 4 | %
Open Merit (Punjab)
Partially subsidized A2 39 19 15 4 10 30 20 10 4 9 160
Open Merit (Punjab) 4
Partially subsidized AM z 3
DAE - Subsidized I 4 2 4 1 1 1 3 2 1 1 1 4 19
Children of Engrs, N 2 2
Architects, Planners
Non-Muslims (Punjab) NM 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 16
Backward Areas of L 1 1
Punjab
Children of Univ. an F aw ifthe alt a
Employees M Upper Limit of 10 seats in any major discipline- A total of 41 seats in all.
Children of University
Alumni e 1 1
B.Sc Engg Tech or
equivalent P 4 2 2 1 1 1 4 12
Bhakkar and Layyah
Districts B 1 d
Children of Overseas
Pakistanis Ss 10 14 17 2 5 2 50
Children of Overseas sl 1 1
Pakistanis (DAE)
Disabled (Punjab T
Domiciled)
Sub-total (i) 154 98 87 49 52 3h 155 102 51 51 51 | 51 62 990

 

188

 


 

www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021
Reserved Seat Allocation Chart for Faculty of Electrical Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

gO el/_-m) ra m m|o2m|eo 8 ° 9 B en 2 @

e8 S/°8| Fs |) *S | 48) se) se} sg | | H | g | k | Blz]
Sindh B 1 1
Baluchistan c 1 1 1 1 1 5
KPK D 1 1 2
Azad Kashmir E 5 1 1 1 8
Azad Kashmir (Lepa E Open - Choice open to the candidate — A total of one seat in all.
Valley)
Gilgit Baltistan E 1 1 2
Foreign (under
Economics Affairs H1 20 20
Division)
Afghan Nationals H2 Open — Upper limit of 05 seats in major disciplines in Lahore Campus — A total of 44 seats in all.
OIC Nominees H2
Indian Occupied H3 Open — Upper limit of 03 seats in major disciplines — A total of 15 seats in all.
Kashmir
Cultural Exchange H4 9 4 6
(Yemen)
Army J 3 2 §
Air Force J 1 1 2
Navy J 1 1
FATA K 4 4
DG Khan (Tribal) Q 1 1
Rajanpur (Tribal) Q 1 1
ee U Open — Upper limit of 04 seats in major disciplines — A total of 20 seats in all.
HEC Self Finance SF 10 Open - Upper Limit of 05 seats in each discipline - A total of 50 seats in all. 10
Sub-total (ii) il 2 3 2 1 4 4 - 1 : - : - 68
Sub-total (i) 154 98 87 49 52 37 155 102 51 51 51 51 52 990
Grand Total 205 100 90 51 53 4 159 102 52 51 51 51 52 1058

 

189

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Seat Allocation Chart for Faculty of Mechanical Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

= = = a
9 Sg 8 S = = n= m = = a
2¢ 3 8 g B | £€2/ g3|e3| &8| 8 3 g Es
s3 3 5 7 a) *s)/ *3)] BB] 28 3 4 =
3 A | a gq
Oo
Open Merit (Punjab) - Subsidized M 90 60 40 42 60 70 30 34 45 30 501
Open Merit (Punjab)
Partially subsidized A2 39 14 2 15 16 19 9 3 17 134
DAE - Subsidized | 4 4 1 1 2 4 { 1 1 1 14
Children of Engrs, Architects, 2
Planners N 2
Non-Muslims
(Punjab) NM 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 "1
Backward Areas of Punjab L 1 1
Children of Univ. Employees M Upper Limit of 10 seats in any major discipline- A total of 41 seats in all.
Children of University Alumni 0 1 1
B.Sc Engg Tech or equivalent Pp ‘4 2 1 1 1 1 1 “
Bhakkar and Layyah Districts R
Children of Overseas Pakistanis s 15 43 2 6 2 10 3 54
Children of Overseas Pakistanis
(DAE) SI 4 4 2
Disabled (Punjab Domiciled) T
Sub-total (i) 158 92 47 5 80 99 51 49 51 50 728

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

190

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Reserved Seat Allocation Chart for Faculty of Mechanical Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

= = = =
#8 @ |ck | 8 | we | ee) 58 | 88 | 28) F | F | Fe) a
32 & | 28 | 3 | Gs | ss) Fe | 88 | FS) 8 xz | 88] 8
go oO 3 3. A 3. 42. = 3. as os 2s > ao Bs 2
ge = | 8 & g|*®s)°2 |) 82 | gs] 8 a | g
Sindh B 1 1
Baluchistan c 1 1 1 3
KPK D 1 1
Azad Kashmir E 5 1 1 7
Azad Kashmir (Lepa Valley) E Open - Choice open to the candidate — A total of one seat in all.
Gilgit Baltistan E 1 1 1 1 4
Foreign (under Economics
Affairs Division) M1 2 12
Afghan Nationals H2 Open — Upper limit of 05 seats in major disciplines in Lahore Campus - A total of 44 seats in all.
OIC Nominees H2 1 1
Indian Occupied Kashmir H3 Open — Upper limit of 03 seats in major disciplines — A total of 15 seats in all.
Cultural Exchange (Yemen) H4 2 2
Army J 3 3
Air Force J
Navy J 1 1
FATA K 2 2 2 2 12
DG Khan (Tribal Area) Q 1 1
Rajanpur (Tribal Area) Q 1 1
cae FATA (BEC U Open — Upper limit of 04 seats in major disciplines — A total of 20 seats in all.
HEC Self Finance SF 10 Open - Upper Limit of 05 seats in each discipline - A total of 50 seats in all. 10
Sub-total (ii) 42 2 6 1 3 0 2 1 2 59
Sub-total (i) 158 92 AT 51 80 99 51 49 51 50 728
Grand Total 200 94 53 51 81 102 51 51 52 52 787

 

191

 


www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Seat Allocation Chart for Faculty of Civil Engineering, Faculty of Chemical,
Metallurgical and Material Engineering and Faculty of Earth Sciences
and Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

°Q = vu
OQ m ma} mm > o vu =o a
zg g | 2| 2/28/23 \22| 3 |f2| 8 |eS/eteles/ cz /s2] 5
Pac o - 2 |feI/SEIcs 8 |88/5 |S8a/3536/32)/3e/78)/ &
ze 8 )2)8 (82/88/83 ] 5 |es) 8 |3e\see/82/ 8s] se) =
° 2 co 2 aw = m S
a= =| 3 | 8 |se)se|se| 3 |#°|2\a|ds |g) 8/28
Open Merit - Subsidized Al 90 30 28 25 38 50 30 60 40 30 20 30 35 506
Open Mert —Fartaly a2 | 33 n | a | wo | 4 | 1 | 29] 6 8 9 | 5 | 7 | 154
subsidized
DAE - Subsidized | 4 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 13
Children of Engrs, Architects, N 2 1 1 1 1 6
Planners
Non-Muslims
(Punjab) NM 2 1 4 1 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 13
Backward Areas of Punjab L
Children of Univ. Employees M Upper Limit of 10 seats in any major discipline- A total of 41 seats in all.
Children of University Alumni Oo
B.Sc. Engg Tech or P 4 1 2 1 1 9
equivalent
Bhakkar and Layyah Districts R
Children of Overseas s |] 9/5 | 2] 2) 0|4 444) 2 1 2 1 | 87
Pakistanis
Children of Overseas
Pakistanis (DAE) I 4 1 2
Disabled (Punjab Domiciled) T
Sub-total (i) 150 42 46 40 51 80 48 96 50 42 34 38 43 760
192

100 Years of Ex

 


 

www.uet.edu.pk

 

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Reserved Seat Allocation Chart for Faculty Civil Engineering,
Faculty of Chemical, Metallurgical and Material Engineering and
Faculty of Earth Sciences and Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

° 2) mal mm] g 2 vl|=z & =| &
Bg g| 2 | & |st|2e/es| 2 | 82) § | c§ ce2] 52] sz lse| a
28 &| § e /22\/e8)/es |} 8 | 88) 3 | s8 Bea) 32 | 346 leo) F
se 8 Ey 8 8s | 82 | 82 5 Sa | = |8mebA a3 /3ao ia) =
s< < 3 s m/Ss/8s3 = ae a a 2 o 2 [ey
eS a os on 3 zx a 2 2 2
Sindh B 1 2 2 1 1 7
Baluchistan c 3 1 1 1 1 1 3 2 1 14
KPK D 1 1 2 2 1 1 2 1
Azad Kashmir E 5 2 2 2 2 14
a (Lepa E Open - Choice open to the candidate — A total of one seat in all.
Gilgit Baltistan E 1 1 1 3
Foreign (under
Economics Affairs H1 21 3 4 3 3 34
Division)
Afghan Nationals H2 Open — Upper limit of 05 seats in major disciplines in Lahore Campus — A total of 44 seats in all.
OIC Nominees H2 1 1 2
feel Ooaied H3 Open — Upper limit of 03 seats in major disciplines — A total of 15 seats in all.
Cultural Exchange Hd 7 1 2
(Yemen)
Army J 2 2
Air Force J
Navy J
FATA K 8 2 2 2 14
DG Khan (Tribal) Q 1 1 2
Rajanpur (Tribal) Q 1 1
ieee U Open — Upper limit of 04 seats in major disciplines — A total of 20 seats in all.
HEC Self Finance SF 10 Open - Upper Limit of 05 seats in each discipline - A total of 50 seats in all. 10
Sub-total (ii) 54 2 6 1 13 4 2 1 6 1 8 8 | 115
Sub-total (i) 150 42 46 40 51 80 48 96 50 42 34 38 43 | 760
Grand Total 204 44 52 4 51 93 52 98 54 48 45 46 51 | 875

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

193

 


wuueledupe Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

Seat Allocation Chart for Faculty of Faculty of Architecture and
Planning & Faculty of Natural Sciences, Humanities and Islamic Studies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

<> QS vu
x = Q
& Ss 9 g se =
3 7 s g8 33 2 & 2
9 & = ae | as g gs |s|/8|2)8) 8] 8
g o oO 5 z 58 a 3 ot > a A nm 2
S < & se 26 3 S °
s 2 3 gs 8
s 3 S -
Open Merit (Punjab) - Al 25 35 25 40 40 40 | 150 | 100 | 22 22 | 499
Subsidized
Open Merit (Punjab) - A1-M
Subsidized A1-M a at #2
Open Meri (Punjab) Partially | A2 44 13 8 4 4 4 2 2 54
subsidized
Open Merit (Punjab) Partially | A2-M
yy 2 2 4
subsidized
DAE - Subsidized | 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 8
Children of Engrs, Architects,
Planners N 1 f 2
Non-Muslims
(Punjab) NM 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 2 1 1 13
Backward Areas of Punjab L
Children of Univ. Employees M Upper Limit of 10 seats in any major discipline- A total of 41 seats in all.
Children of University Alumni 0
B.Tech(P) P
Bhakkar and Layyah Districts R
Children o' Overseas s 5 2 5 5 5 2 2 26
Pakistanis
Children of Overseas sl
Pakistanis (DAE)
Disabled (Punjab Domiciled) T 1 1 2
Sub-total (i) 48 53 36 51 51 51 153 102 51 51 647

 

194

100 Years of Ex

 


——— Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 mule

Reserved Seat Allocation Chart for Faculty of Faculty of Architecture and
Planning & Faculty of Natural Sciences, Humanities and Islamic Studies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S = 2 za = 2 a =
z >
gs g| 82 gee ga gig/Zi/gis/afla] #
28 g| 338 $08 be za i/a/$|/F/ 5] 4] & =
= = a Bm aS = |s|?
Ss aa
Sindh B 1 1
Baluchistan Cc 1 1 2
KPK D 5 5
Azad Kashmir E 2 2
Azad Kashmir (Lepa Valley) E Open - Choice open to the candidate — A total of one seat in all.
Gilgit Baltistan E 1 1
Foreign (under Economics | H1 2 3
Affairs Division)
Afghan Nationals H2 Open — Upper limit of 05 seats in major disciplines in Lahore Campus — A total of 44 seats in all.
OIC Nominees H2
Indian Occupied Kashmir H3 Open — Upper limit of 03 seats in major disciplines — A total of 15 seats in all.
Cultural Exchange (Yemen) _|_H4
Army J
Air Force J
Navy J
FATA K
DG Khan (Tribal Area) Q
Rajanpur (Tribal Area) Q
Baluchistan/ FATA (HEC U
Scholars)
HEC Self Finance SF Open - Upper Limit of 05 seats in each discipline — A total of 50 seats in all.
Sub-total (i 3 < B ° » | 16
Sub-total (i) 48 53 36 51 51 | 51 | 153 | 102 51 51 647
Grand Total 51 53 49 51 51 | 51 | 153 | 102 51 51 663

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

195

100 Years of Excell


196

 

www.uet.edu.pk

 

IMPORTANT CONTACT INFORMATION

Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021 ———

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DESIGNATION OFFICE E-MAIL DESIGNATION OFFICE E-MAIL
VICE CHANCELLOR 042-99250201 | vc@uet.edu.pk Metallurgical Engg & Material Science} 042-99029207 | chairmanmet@uet.edu.pk
042-99029205 Mining Engineering 042-99029212 | chairmanmining@uet.edu.pk
Mesg250202 Petroleum Engineering 042-99029471 | chairmanpetroleum@uet.edu.pk
DEANS OF FACULTIES Physics 042-99029204 | chairmanphy@uet.edu.pk

Faculty of Electrical Engineering 042-99029234 | deanee@uet.edu.pk Polymer & Processing Engineering 042-99029505 | chairmanpolymer@uet.edu.pk

Faculty of Mechanical Engineering | 042-99029221 | deanmech@uet.edu.pk io, & 042-99029428 | Chair-tem@uet.edu.pk

Faculty of Civil Engineering 042-99029222 | deancivil@uet.edu.pk Product & Industrial Design 042-99029203 | chairmanpid@uet.edu.pk

Naty ciea rien raland | 042-99029230 | deancmme@uet.edupk HEADS OF NON TEACHING DEPARTMENTS

Faculty of Architecture & Planning | 042-99029260 | deanarch@uet.edu.pk Chairman Health Committee 042-99029240 | chairmanee@uet edu.pk

Faculty of NaturalSciences, | 42-99029215 | deannshis@uet.edu.pk Dircor Finanacial Aid & Career ow2-s020216 | tacs@uetedu nk
CHAIRPERSONS OF TEACHING DEPARTMENTS ChairmanTransport Committee 042-99029266 | ctc@uet.edu.pk

Architecture 042-99029223 | chairmanarch@uetedupk | chiet Medical Officer 042-99029240 | cmo@uet.edu.pk

Architecture Engineering & Design | 042-89029418 | chaltmanaed@uetiedu pk Controller of Examinations 042-99029235 | examination@uet.edu.pk

Chemical Engineering 042-99029488 | chairmanchemical@uet.edu.pk | Convener Admission Committee / 042.99029216 | admission@uet edu pk

Chemistry 042-99029239 | chairmanchemistry@uet.edu.pk Incharge Student Section/

City & Regional Planning 042-99029203 | chairmanorp@uet edu pk International Students Office 042-99250212 | drsaleemkhan@uet.edu.pk

Civil Engineering 042-99029202 | chairmancivil@uet.edu.pk plfioy Seve esearen Ex 042-98029237 | mtahir@uet.edu.pk

Computer Science & Engineering 042-99029260 | chairmancse@uet.edu.pk Director Studies 042-99029251 | Dir.studies@uet.edu.pk

Electrical Engineering 042-99029229 | chairmanee@uet.edu.pk Director Students Affairs 042-99029244 | dsa@uet.edu.pk

Institute of Environmental Engg. 042-99029248 | sajjad@uet.edu.pk Focal Person Higher Education 042-99029144 | hecfocalperson@uet.edu.pk

Geoligical Engineering 042-99029297 | chairmangeological@uet.edu.pk | Librarian 042-99029243 | lib@uet.edu.pk

Humanities and SocialScience 042-99029493 | chairmanhmss@uet.edu.pk Project Director 042-99029238 | pd@uet.edu.pk

area eneouTng 042-99029226 | chairmanime@uet.edu.pk Public Relation Officer 042-99029358 | pro@uet.edu.pk

Islamic Studies 042-99029246 | chairmanislamic@uet.edu.pk | Registrar 042-99029227 | registrar@uet.edu.pk

Mathematics 042-99029210 | chairmanmath@uet.edu.pk Resident Auditor 042-99029232 | ra@uet.edu.pk

Mechanical Engineering 042-99029466 | chairmanmech@uet.edu.pk Senior Warden 042-99029225 | seniorw@uet.edu.pk

Mechatronics & Control Engineering | 042-99029294 | chairmanmce@uet.edu.pk Treasurer 042-99029233 | treasurer@uet.edu.pk

 

ET

og

 


 

Thank You

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This prospectus in its current form would not have been possible without contributions from various departments and
Offices of the administration.

Vice Chancellor Professor Dr. Syed Mansoor Sarwar, as patron was always encouraging and providing critical
feedback on various aspects. His support in our endeavors is gratefully acknowledged. Special thanks to all chairpersons of the
departments and Registrar who provided us necessary information for inclusion in this prospectus. Team that put in extraordinary
hard work in preparing the actual prospectus needs special mention and acknowledgments.

Dr. Hasan Erteza Gelani and Mr. Noor-ud-Din Muhammad Jahangir were instrumental in preparing editing and finalizing
the information provided by the departments and institutes. Prof. Dr. Mohammad Ali Maud compiled and finalized the regulations
portion of the prospectus. Naveed Ahmad Rana, Muhammad Asif and Javed Iqbal were always there to help the teams working on
the prospectus.


soeybbemipe Undergraduate | Prospectus | 2021

 

Admission Forms

198

100 Years of Excell


DULY FILLED FORMS TO BE SUBMITTED
BY SELECTED CANDIDATES

Compulsory forms

FORM-I: Declaration Form
FORM-II: Application Submission Declaration
FORM-IX: Bio-Data Card
FORM-X: Medical Certificate
FORM-XI: Undertaking (SAMPLE)
Income Certificate
> For employed parents/ guardians: Last drawn salary certificate
> For self employed: Income certificate in the form of an undertaking duly

attested by a class-I gazette officer

Optional Forms (To be filled only if applicable)

FORM-III: Government Employee Certificate

FORM-IV: Election Officer Certificate

FORM-V: UET Employee Certificate

FORM-VI: Marriage Certificate (For “M” Category Only)
FORM VIII: Overseas Category’s Certificate


Serial Number:

Form-|

Declaration Form (Entry 2021)

i) Muslims Only

A) | solemnly declare that | believe that Hazrat Muhammad
(SAWS) is the last Prophet of Allah and there is and was no
Prophet after him. And that | have firm faith in Islam and |
am not the follower of any such person who claims to be a
prophet or religious reformer after Hazrat Muhammad
(peace be upon him). | do not belong to Qadiani, Ahmadi or

Lahori Group.

Signature of the Applicant

iii) Parents or Guardian:

ii) All Applicants

| hereby affirm that the entries on all the forms are correct
to the best of my knowledge and that | shall abide by all the
rules and regulations which the University authorities may

prescribe for the students

Signature of the Applicant

| certify that my son/daughter/ward makes this application with my knowledge and consent, and that | hold

myself responsible for his/her conduct.

Signature of Parent/Guardian


Form -Il

(APPLICATION SUBMISSION DECLARATION)

son/daughter of do solemnly declare that | have not applied for admission in any Engineeing

 

Institution in the country with a domicile other than that of the Punjab Province/Federal Capital Area, tlamabad.

Signature of the applicant

Name
Address

Dated :

Signature of the applicant’s parent

Name
Full Address

 

 

 

Dated :


Form -Ill

CERTIFICATE
(To be given by the Head of Department not below a Class | Gazetted Officer)

This is to certify that Mr/ Mrs

 

father/ mother of the applicant namely

 

is an employee of the Department of

 

 

and he/ she has served in the province of Sind / KPK. / Baluchistan in his/ her capacity as

(state rank/ BPS)

 

From to

It is further certified after due verification of his/her official record that he/she is permanent resident of Punjab

Signature of the
Head of Department

Name

Dated : (Official Seal)

Signature of the applicant’s parent Signature of the applicant


| (name of the Election Officer)

Form -IV

CERTIFICATE
(To be given by the Election Officer)

 

 

 

Being the Election Officer of:
Ward No. Area
City/Town Tehsil
District in the Punjab Province / Federal Capital Area, Islamabad do hereby certify that the name of

(applicant's father)
Mr.

appears on page

the year

Dated :

son of Mr.

of the latest electoral roll of voters of the area under my control. This electoral roll was published in

Signature
ELECTION OFFICER
Name
Address
(Official Seal)

Signature of the applicant’s father/ parent Signature of the applicant


Form -V

 

 

 

Applicants Parent's
Photograph Photograph
CERTIFICATE

(Given by the Registrar, UET, Lahore)

 

 

 

 

 

Itis to certify that Mr. / Mrs.

 

Father/Mother of applicant

 

has been a full-time employee of the University from to

as in the department/branch.

 

He/She has continuously served the university for a period not less than five years (being physically present in the university during the peiod)

Further certified that he/she

a) did not leave the university service by resigning and
b) was not dismissed, removed or debarred from the University service under its Efficiency and Discipline Rules
c) has not been transferred to the University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila.

Signature of the
Registrar

Dated: (Official Seal)


Form -VI
CERTIFICATE
(Certificate is to be given by a Class-I Gazetted Officer)
The family of the applicant

Mr./ Miss.

 

son/ daughter of

is personally known to me and | certify that the applicant is not married.

Signature

 

Name
Full Address

 

 

 

 

(Official Seal)

Dated :


Form-VIIl

CERTIFICATE FROM OVERSEAS PAKISTANIS FOR ADMISSION OF THEIR CHILDREN / WARDS ON

RESERVED SEATS UNDER CATEGORY S & SI
(PLEASE FILL IN BLOCK LETTERS ONLY)

The University of Engineering & Technology, Lahore has reserved one hundred and sixty eight (168) seats in
its Bachelor's Degree Programs for the Children / Wards of Pakistanis working in foreign countries. To ensure that these
seats go to the rightful claimants, the parent (father / mother / guardian) of the applicant is required to get this
certificate signed from the Pakistani Embassy in the country in which he/she is working. The sponsor should
also get the photocopies of his/her passport and resident visa/residence permit attested by the same Embassy.

University of Engineering and Technology (UET) Lahore, Pakistan will be obliged to the respective Pakistani embassies
for their co-operation in providing the following information.

Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan of (Country)

 

 

Overseas Sponsor's
Photograph

Attested by
Concerned Embassy

 

 

Name of Pakistani Citizen Residing in the Jurisdiction of the Embassy:

 

Father's Name of Pakistani Citizen:

 

Passport No.: Date of Issue: Date of Expiry:

 

Stay in that country since

 

CNIC No:

 

Date of Issue of Visa/ Residence Permit: Date of Expiry:

 

Employer/ Profession:

 

Present Address:

 

Authorized Signature
Embassy of Pakistan
(Official Embossed Seal)

 

Name of Applicant for Admission to UET Lahore :

 

Relationship of Applicant with Pakistani Citizen Whose Credentials are given above :

‘Son/ Daughter/ Ward

 

 

IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS

 

 

Applicant ‘s
Photograph

 

 

Definition of a Guardian For Applicants who are Orphans :
(i) Real brother; (ii) Real maternal uncle (Mamoo) (iii) Real paternal uncle (Chacha, Taya)

of the applicant; (3) Copy of Nikahnama in case the guardian is the maternal uncle (Mamoo) of the applicant.
Incomplete Form/Form without documents shall not be acceptable in any circumstances.

WARNING

university of Pakistan.

 

In case of an orphan following additional documents are required: (1) Father's death certificate issued by NADRA; (2 ) Proof of relationship with
the guardian in the form of CNIC of all family members and NADRA Family Registration Certificate (FRC) highlighting the Family Tree structure

Fake / tempered documents shall be rejected and such students will be black listed and they will not be eligible for admission in any

 

 

 

 


Form-IX
Application Form No.
BIODATA CARD
UNIVERSITY OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, LAHORE

To be submitted by the selected candidates only

 

 

 

 

 

A PERSONAL RECORD
Name of Applicant
Discipline applied for Photog raph
Religion
Place / Date of Birth
Permanent Home Address

 

 

 

 

OF Be Oo Re:

 

 

B_ FAMILY RECORD

 

 

Father's Name
Father’s Occupation
Father's Address
Father’s Pay
Mother's Occupation and Pay (if any)
Income from any other source
Total Family Income (Monthly)

 

 

 

 

 

 

POP Ol ON

 

C EXTRACURRICULAR RECORD
1. Member/Office Bearer of any Team, Club Society
Social Organization during School/College period
2. — Prizes or Distinction, if any
3. Hobbies

 

 

 

 

D ACADEMIC RECORD

 

Name of Examination Passed Year of Passing Percentage Marks Division / Grade
School College

 

Matriculation
F.Sc. or equivalent Examination
B.Sc.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNDERTAKING
| solemnly undertake that before appearing in the Final Examination of the Bachelor’s Degree Programme , | shall make one person literate so that he will be able to
i). read and write his name;
ii). make simple calculations;
ili). read and write a simple statement
iv). read a Qurani Qaaida, e.g., Yassarnal Quran

Dated : Signature of Candidate

Note : Please fill in all the portions


MEDICAL CETIFICATE Form-X

to be submitted by the selected candidates only

 

 

 

 

| certify that | have carefully examined Mr./Miss./Mrs.

 

son / daughter of Registration No. / Test Roll No. Date of birth

Gender CNIC/ B-Form
Number:

 

Residential Address

 

 

Session Campus

 

Contact Number

History (to be filled by student and verified by recognized Medical Professional (RMP)
i. Family History of any Medical or Psychiatric illness

ii, Past Medical and surgical History, if any

iii. History of Substance abuse in family

iv. Decreased appetite and loss of weight

| certify that he/she is fit to perform laboratory/ workshop work and fit to write and solve mathematical problems. He/she meets the physical standard described at
the back of the form.

His/her particulars are as under:
(Kindly state measurement units where required, such as feet, inches, cm, Ib or kg)
1.Age years. 2.Weight
3. Height 4. Blood Pressure
5.Temperature 6. Pulse Rate
7.Respiratory Rate 8.Chest Unexpanded Expanded
9.Vision: Left Eye Right Eye
Details of glasses (if worn)
10. Marks of Identification: i) ii)

 

11. Any other remarks:

 

Signature of the applicant Registered Medical Officer / Practitioner
(in the presence of the Medical Office) PMDC Registration Number:


PHYSICAL STANDARD FOR ADMISSION

For admission a candidate must be in good mental and physical health and Free any physical
defect. The Fitness requirements are given below:-

nN =

oN aM Ww

10.
11.
12.

The candidate does not suffer From any communicable decease.

Does not bear traces of any previous acute or chronic disease pointing to an
impaired constitution or permanent disability

Does not suffer from any inveterate skin disease.
Does not have any congenital malformation or defect.
Limbs are well-formed and developed.

There is free and perfect motion of all joints.

Chest is well Formed and normal

Distant vision 6/9 in one eye and 6/12 in the other WITH or WITHOUT glasses.
He/she must have normal field and colour of vision, muscular balance, right vision
and binocular vision.

Hearing is good WITH or WITHOUT a hearing aid and there is not sign of ear
disease.

Teeth are in good order. Well-Filled teeth will be considered as Sound.
Lungs and heart are sound.

He does not suffer From a severe degree of varicose veins. A candidate who had
been successfully operated upon is accepted.


Form -XI
UNDERTAKING (Sample)

To be submitted by selected candidates only
On a Rs. 100/- Judicial paper duly completed

 

 

 

 

Mr. / Mrs. Son/daughter of Mr. provisionally selected for admission to
Undergraduate program of in the University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore, do solemnly
declare that | will have no direct/indirect affiliation with any political party during my stay in the University and shallnot indulge in politics.

in case | am found guilty of indulging in politics, | may be expelled from theUniversity without any further notice.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date: Signature
Name
Address
Witness-1 Witness-2
Signature Signature
Name Name
Address Address
National |.D. Card No. National |.D. Card No.
Mr. / Mrs. S/D. father/guardian of Mr./Miss.

 

have read the above undertaking. | do hereby affirm to be responsible, for his/her behavior, during
his/her stay at the University. In case he/she violates the above undertaking, | shall have no objection to his/ her expulsion from the University.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date: Signature of Father / Guardian
Name
Address

Witness-1 Witness-2

Signature Signature

Name Name

Address Address

National |.D. Card No. National |.D. Card No.

 

 

 

Attested by
District Coordination officer / Judicial Magistrate


DISCLAIMER

The contents of this prospectus are for information and shall NOT be taken as binding on the University. Each aspect of the education
set up, like admission procedure or criteria, academic rules and regulations, discipline regulations, admissible fees, etc. requires continuous
review by the competent authorities. The University therefore reserves the right to change rules, regulations, fees applicable, etc. to students
whenever it is deemed appropriate or necessary. Inquiries concerning admission should be addressed to:

Convener Admission Committee
UNIVERSITY OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
G.T. Road, Lahore - 54890, PAKISTAN.

Telephone: +92 42 99029216, +92 42 99029452
E-mail: admission@uet.edu.pk

Serial No. & Token No.

 
Price: Rs. 600/-
Processing Fee: Rs 1,000/-
Total payable at the time of purchase of prospectus: Rs 1,600/-


Undergraduate Prospectus

 


